After walking perhaps ten minutes, the boys came upon a creaking old cab
drawn by a couple of the sorriest-looking horses they had ever seen.The
driver, who sat half asleep on the seat, jumped down to the pavement and
eyed the boys suspiciously as they requested to be taken out to where
the machines had been left.The lads were expecting a long tussle between the English and the
Spanish languages, but the cabman surprised them by answering their
request in excellent English.“So?” exclaimed Jimmie.“You talk United States, too, do you?Where did
you come from?”

“You want to go out to the machines, do you?” asked the cabman, without
appearing to notice the question.Daniel travelled to the bathroom.“That’s where we want to go!” replied Carl.“What for?” asked the cabman.“None of your business!” replied Jimmie.“I’ve been out there once to-night!” said the cabman, “and the party I
drew beat me out of my fare.”

“That’s got nothing to do with us!” replied Carl.John went back to the kitchen.John went back to the hallway.“It’ll cost you ten dollars!” growled the cabman.“Say, look here!” Jimmie exclaimed.Daniel travelled to the kitchen.“You’re a bigger robber than the New
York cabmen!It’s only a mile to the field, and we’ll walk just to show
you that we don’t have to use your rickety old cab.”

With a snarl and a frown the cabman climbed back up on his seat and gave
every appearance of dropping into sound slumber.“Now what do you think of that for a thief?” asked Carl, as the boys
hastened away toward the field.“I’d walk ten miles before I’d give that
fellow a quarter!”

“We’ve got plenty of time,” Jimmie answered.Mary travelled to the garden.“The moon won’t be up for
an hour yet.Mary went to the office.Perhaps we’d better walk up anyway, for then we can enter
the field quietly and see what’s going on.”

On the way out the lads met several parties returning from the field,
and when they reached the opening in the fence they saw that many
curious persons were still present.There were at least half a dozen
vehicles of different kinds gathered close about the roped-off circle.“Say,” Carl exclaimed as the boys passed into the field, “look at that
old rattletrap on the right.Isn’t that the same vehicle the cabman
pretended to go asleep on as we came away?”

“Sure it is!” answered Jimmie.“I don’t remember the appearance of the
cab so well, but I know just