Jim Lentz is the chief executive officer for Toyota North America; president and chief operating officer of Toyota Motor North America, Inc. (TMA); and a senior managing officer of the parent company Toyota Motor Corporation (TMC) which is located in Japan.
 In that role Lentz manages all of Toyota’s North American affiliate companies which include TMA, Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A., Inc. (TMS), and Toyota Motor Engineering & Manufacturing, North America, Inc. (TEMA), which includes responsibilities for Toyota Motor Manufacturing Canada Inc. (TMMC), and oversight for Toyota Canada, Inc. (TCI).
 Lentz also serves as the chairman of the North American Executive Committee.
 This is composed of the top leaders from the affiliate companies.
 Most recently Lentz was the president and chief executive officer of TMS and senior vice president of TMA and served in a global advisory capacity as the managing officer for TMC.
 Before that he served as president and chief operating officer and executive vice president of TMS.
 Lentz previously held several executive positions including Toyota division group vice president and general manager where he oversaw all sales, logistics and marketing activities for Toyota and Scion regional sales offices and distributors.
 He also served as the group vice president of marketing for the Toyota division and vice president of Scion, and was responsible for the initial launch of a new line of vehicles.
 Lentz spent several years in the field as vice president and general manager of the Los Angeles region and before that general manager of the San Francisco region.
 Prior to his role as general manager Lentz was vice president of marketing services for CAT in Maryland.
 He has also held several other TMS positions, including field training manager, sales administration manager and truck sales team member.
 Lentz joined Toyota in 1982 as the merchandising manager for its Portland, Oregon region where he later became the distribution manager and field operations manager.
 He serves as chairman on the board of directors of The Global Automakers and is also a member of the executive advisory board for Daniels College of Business at the University of Denver (DU), his alma mater.
 He was named “Marketer of the Year” by Advertising Age in 2006, an Automotive News “All Star” in 2007 and honored at Industry Leader of the year.