Dr. Annavarapu Ramaswamy (born 23 March 1926) is an Indian Classical Carnatic Violin Vidwan and Guru, whose musical journey entered into 9th decade.
 He is in the fourth line of direct disciples in Guru Shishya parampara of the Great Musician Saint Thyagaraja and is a disciple of Sri Parupalli Ramakrishnayya Pantulu.
 Both, Dr.M.Balamuralikrishna and him are very close friends, companions, classmates, learned carnatic music under the same guru Sri Parupalli Ramakrishnayya Pantulu.
 They performed many concerts together throughout the world.
 Many stalwarts in carnatic music, wanted and appreciated him as an accompaniment in their concerts in yesteryears.
 He accompanied top ranked legendary stalwart musicians of India, carnatic musicians such as his guru, Sri Parupalli Ramakrishnayya Pantulu,  Dr. Mangalampalli Balamurali Krishna, Sri Arayakudi Ramanuja Iyyengar, Sri Chembai Vaidyanatha Bhagavatar, Sri G. N. Balasubramaniam, Sri Semmamgudi Srinivasa Iyyer, T. R. Maralingam, Sri S.Balachandar etc..
.
; and Hindustani Musicians - Pandit Vinayakarao Pathvardhan, Pandit Bhimsen Joshi, Pandit Jasraj, etc., on many Prestigious National and International venues.
 He came up with his own style of performing solo concerts on Violin & Viola.
 He invented new Ragas & Talams such as Vandana Ragam, SriDurga Ragam and Tinetradi Tala and Vedadi Tala.
 He had written and composed many Varnams and Kritis.
 He is a notable guru, taught many students, who are in successful positions such as Violin Vasu, Flute Phani, V.L.Tulasi Viswanath (carnatic vocalist), Peravali Nanda Kumar (Violinist), etc., For the past 7 to 8 decades, he has been doing free service to the society such as teaching students at free of cost.
 He propagated the magnificence of his performances, teachings, demonstrations and Lectures on Music in countries such as U. S. A, Canada, European Countries (U. K, France etc.) and Asian Countries (Muscat, Bahrain, Dubai, Singapore, Malaysia, Doha, Srilanka, etc.,)