“Yes, and he must have come out by a roundabout way in order to prevent
our seeing him.Now what do you think he did that for?Why should he
care whether we see him or not?”

As the boy asked the question the rig which they had been discussing was
driven slowly away, not in the direction of the road, but toward the
back end of the field.“Something mighty funny going on here!” Jimmie declared.“I guess it’s a
good thing we came out.”

When the boys came up to where the machines were lying, Doran was the
first one to approach.“Little nervous about your machines, eh?” he asked.“Rather,” replied Jimmie.“We came out with the idea of taking a short
trip to see if they still are in working order.”

“Well,” Doran said with a scowl, “of course you know that you can’t take
the machines out without an order from Mr.Bixby!”




                               CHAPTER V.

                          A WAIF AND A STRAY.“Bixby doesn’t own these machines!” exclaimed Carl angrily.“Who does own them?” demanded Doran.“We four boys own them!” was the reply.“Well, you’ve got to show me!” insisted Doran, insolently.Sandra journeyed to the bathroom.“I’ll tell you what we’ll do!” Jimmie announced.“We’ll go right back to
Bixby and put you off the job!”

“Go as far as you like,” answered Doran.Sandra journeyed to the hallway.“I was put here to guard these
machines and I intend to do it.You can’t bluff me!”

While the boys stood talking with the impertinent guard they saw two
figures moving stealthily about the aeroplanes.Jimmie hastened over to
the _Louise_ and saw a man fumbling in the tool-box.“What are you doing here?” demanded the boy.The intruder turned a startled face for an instant and then darted away,
taking the direction the cab had taken.Carl and Doran now came running up and Jimmie turned to the latter.You should always go
prepared for rain and snow, and, above all, have an extra pair of thick
stockings.Your feet are soaked now, aren't they?""They are; but your father told me to always dry my boots on my feet,
otherwise they'd shrink out of shape.""That's right, too; but you'd better take 'em off and wring out your
socks or else put on dry ones.""You insist on my playing the invalid," he complained,