“I tell you they are in the temple,” one of the men said speaking in a
corrupt dialect of the English language which it is useless to attempt
to reproduce.“They are in the temple at this minute!”

“Don’t be too sure of that, Felix!” the other said.“And what is more,” the man who had been called Felix went on, “they
will never leave the temple alive!”

“And so fails the great expedition!” chuckled the second speaker.“When we are certain that what must be has actually taken place,” Felix
went on, “I’ll hide the flying machine in a safer place, pay you as
agreed, and make my way back to Quito.Does that satisfy you?”

“I shall be satisfied when I have the feeling of the gold of the
Gringoes!” was the reply.Sam caught his breath sharply as he listened to the conversation.“There was some trap in the temple, then,” he mused, “designed to get us
out of the way.I should have known that,” he went on, bitterly, “and
should never have left the boys alone there!”

The two men advanced nearer to the angle of the cliff and seemed to be
waiting the approach of some one from the other side.“And Miguel?” asked Felix.“Why is he not here?”

“Can you trust him?” he added, in a moment.“With my own life!”

“The Gringoes are clever!” warned Felix.“But see!” exclaimed the other.There surely can be no mistake.”

The men lapsed into silence and stood listening.Sam began to hope that
their plans had indeed gone wrong.For a moment he was uncertain as to what he ought to do.He believed
that in the absence of the two leaders he might be able to get the _Ann_
into the air and so bring assistance to the boys.And yet, he could not
put aside the impression that immediate assistance was the only sort
which could ever be of any benefit to the two lads!“If they are in some trap in the temple,” he soliloquized, “the thing to
do is to get to them as soon as possible, even if we do lose the
machine, which, after all, is not certain.”

“The flying machine,” the man who had been called Felix was now heard to
say, “is of great value.It would bring a fortune in London.”

“But how are you to get it out of this district just at this time?”
asked the other.“How to get it out without discovery?”

“Fly it out!”

“Can you fly it out?” asked the other in a sarcastic tone.“There are plenty who can!” replied Felix, somewhat angrily.Mary travelled to the office.“But it is
not to be taken out at present,” he went on.“To lift it in the air now
would be to notify every Gringo from Quito to Lima that the prize
machine of the New York Millionaire, having been stolen, is in this part
of the country.”

“That is very true,” replied the other.“Hence, I have hidden it,” Felix went on.Are they safe?” was the next question.“As safe as such people usually are!” was the answer.As Sam Weller listened, his mind was busily considering one expedient
after another, plan after plan, which presented the least particle of
hope for the release of the boys.From the conversation he had overheard
he understood that the machine would not be removed for a number of
days—until, in fact, the hue and cry over its loss had died out.This, at least, lightened the difficulties to some extent.He could
devote his entire attention to the situation at the temple without
thought of the valuable aeroplane, but how to get to the temple with
those two ruffians in the way!Only for the savage associates in the
background, it is probable that he would have opened fire on the two
schemers.That was a sufficient reason, to
his mind, to bring about decisive action on his part.However, the
savages were there, just at the edge of the forest, and an attack on the
two leaders would undoubtedly bring them into action.Of course it was
not advisable for him to undertake a contest involving life and death
with such odds against him.The two men were still standing at the angle of the cliff.Only for the brilliant moonlight, Sam believed that he might elude their
vigilance and so make his way to the temple.But there was not a cloud
in the sky, and the illumination seemed to grow stronger every moment as
the moon passed over to the west.At last the very thing the young man had hoped for in vain took place.A
jumble of excited voices came from the thicket, and the men who were
watching turned instantly in that direction.As they looked, the sound
of blows and cries of pain came from the jungle.Sandra journeyed to the hallway.“Those brutes will be eating each other alive next!” exclaimed Felix.“That is so!” answered the other.“I warned you!”

“Suppose you go back and see what’s wrong?” suggested Felix.“I have no influence over the savages,” was the reply, “and besides, the
temple must be watched.”

With an exclamation of anger Felix started away in the direction of the
forest.It was evident that he had his work cut out for him there, for
the savages were fighting desperately, and his approach did not appear
to terminate the engagement.The man left at the angle of the cliff to watch and wait for news from
the temple moved farther around the bend and stood leaning against the
cliff, listening.The rattling of a
pebble betrayed the young man’s presence, and his hands upon the throat
of the other alone prevented an outcry which would have brought Felix,
and perhaps several of the savages, to the scene.It was a desperate, wordless, almost noiseless, struggle that ensued.The young man’s muscles, thanks to months of mountain exercise and
freedom from stimulants and narcotics, were hard as iron, while those of
his opponent seemed flabby and out of condition, doubtless because of
too soft living in the immediate past.The contest, therefore, was not of long duration.Realizing that he was
about to lapse into unconsciousness, Sam’s opponent threw out his hands
in token of surrender.Mary journeyed to the kitchen.The young man deftly searched the fellow’s person
for weapons and then drew him to his feet.“Now,” he said, presenting his automatic to the fellow’s breast, “if you
utter a word or signal calculated to bring you help, that help will come
too late, even if it is only one instant away.At the first sound or
indication of resistance, I’ll put half a clip of bullets through your
heart!”

“You have the victory!” exclaimed the other sullenly.“Move along toward the temple!” demanded Sam.“It is not for me to go there!” was the reply.“And I’ll walk along behind you,” Sam went on, “and see that you have a
ballast of bullets if any treachery is attempted.”

“It is forbidden me to go to the temple to-night,” the other answered,
“but, under the circumstances, I go!”

Fearful that Felix might return at any moment, or that the savages,
enraged beyond control, might break away in the direction of the temple,
Sam pushed the fellow along as rapidly as possible, and the two soon
came to the great entrance of that which, centuries before, had been a
sacred edifice.The fellow shuddered as he stepped into the musty
interior.“It is not for me to enter!” he said.“And now,” Sam began, motioning his captive toward the chamber where the
bunks and provisions had been discovered, “tell me about this trap which
was set to-night for my chums.”

“I know nothing!” was the answer.“That is false,” replied Sam.“I overheard the conversation you had with
Felix before the outbreak of the savages.”

“I know nothing!” insisted the other.“Now, let me tell you this,” Sam said, flashing his automatic back and
forth under the shaft of light which now fell almost directly upon the
two, “my friends may be in deadly peril at this time.It may be that one
instant’s hesitation on your part will bring them to death.”

The fellow shrugged his shoulders impudently and threw out his hands.Sam saw that he was watching the great entrance carefully, and became
suspicious that some indication of the approach of Felix had been
observed.“I have no time to waste in arguments,” Sam went on excitedly.“The trap
you have set for my friends may be taking their lives at this moment.I
will give you thirty seconds in which to reveal to me their whereabouts,
and to inform me as to the correct course to take in order to protect
them.”

The fellow started back and fixed his eyes again on the entrance, and
Sam, following his example, saw something which sent the blood rushing
to his heart.Outlined on the white stone was the shadow of a human being!Although not in sight, either an enemy or a friend was at hand!“Door?” repeated Carl, in reply to his chum’s exclamation.“There’s no
door here!”

“But there is!” insisted Jimmie.“I heard the rattle of iron against
granite only a moment ago!”

As the boy spoke he turned his flashlight back to the narrow passage and
then, catching his chum by the arm, pointed with a hand which was not
altogether steady to an iron grating which had swung or dropped from
some point unknown into a position which effectually barred their return
to the outer air!The bars of the gate, for it was little else, were not
brown and rusty but bright and apparently new.“That’s a new feature of the establishment,” Jimmie asserted.“That gate
hasn’t been long exposed to this damp air!”

“I don’t care how long it hasn’t been here!” Carl said, rather crossly.“What I want to know is how long is it going to remain there?”

“I hope it will let us out before dinner time,” suggested Jimmie.“Away, you and your appetite!” exclaimed Carl.“I suppose you think this
is some sort of a joke.You make me tired!”

“And the fact that we couldn’t get out if we wanted to,” Jimmie grinned,
“makes me hungry!”

“Cut it out!” cried Carl.“The thing for us to do now is to find some
way of getting by that man-made obstruction.”

“Man-made is all right!” agreed Jimmie.“It is perfectly clear, now,
isn’t it, that the supernatural had nothing to do with the
demonstrations we have seen here!”

“I thought you understood that before!” cried Carl, impatiently.Jimmie, who stood nearest to the gate, now laid a hand upon one of the
upright bars and brought his whole strength to bear.The obstruction
rattled slightly but remained firm.Mary journeyed to the office.“Can’t move it!” the boy said.“We may have to tear the wall down!”

“And the man who swung the gate into position?” questioned Carl.“What
do you think he’ll be doing while we’re pulling down that heap of
stones?You’ve got to think of something better than that, my son!”

“Anyway,” Jimmie said, hopefully, “Sam is on the outside, and he’ll soon
find out that we’ve been caught in a trap.”

“I don’t want to pose as a prophet of evil, or anything like that,” Carl
went on, “but it’s just possible that he may have been caught in a trap,
too.Anyway, it’s up to us to go ahead and get out, if we can, without
any reference to assistance from the outside.”

“Go ahead, then!” Jimmie exclaimed.“I’m in with anything you propose!”

The boys now exerted their united strength on the bars of the gate, but
all to no purpose.So far as they could determine, the iron contrivance
had been dropped down from above into grooves in the stone-work on
either side.The bars were an inch or more in thickness, and firmly
enclosed in parallel beams of small size which crossed them at regular
intervals.Seeing the condition of affairs, Jimmie suggested:

“Perhaps we can push it up!”

“Anything is worth trying!” replied Carl.But the gate was too firmly in place to be moved, even a fraction of an
inch, by their joint efforts.“Now, see here,” Jimmie said, after a short and almost painful silence,
“there’s no knowing how long we may be held in this confounded old
dungeon.We’ll need light as long as we’re here, so I suggest that we
use only one flashlight at a time.”

“That will help some!” answered Carl, extinguishing his electric.Jimmie threw his light along the walls of the chamber and over the
floor.There appeared to be no break of any kind in the white marble
which shut in the apartment, except at one point in a distant corner,
where a slab had been removed.“Perhaps,” suggested Carl, “the hole in the corner is exactly the thing
we’re looking for.”

“It strikes me,” said Jimmie, “that one of us saw a light in that corner
not long ago.I don’t remember whether you called my attention to it, or
whether I saw it first, but I remember that we talked about a light in
the apartment as we looked in.”

“Perhaps we’d better watch the hole a few minutes before moving over to
it,” suggested Carl.“The place it leads to may hold a group of savages,
or a couple of renegades, sent on here to make trouble for casual
visitors.”

“Casual visitors!” repeated Jimmie.“That doesn’t go with me!You know,
and I know, that this stage was set for our personal benefit!How the
Redfern bunch got the men in here so quickly, or how they got the
information into this topsy-turvy old country, is another question.”

“I presume you are right,” Carl agreed.“In some particulars,” the boy
went on, “this seems to me to be a situation somewhat similar to our
experiences in the California mountains.”

“Right you are!” cried Jimmie.The circle of light from the electric illuminated the corner where the
break in the wall had been observed only faintly.Determined to discover
everything possible regarding what might be an exit from the apartment,
Jimmie kept his light fixed steadily on that corner.In a couple of minutes Carl caught the boy by the arm and pointed along
the finger of light.“Hold it steadier now,” he said.“I saw a