Owing to
the inexperience of the aviator, she struck the earth with a good deal
of a bump, and exclamations of rage were heard from the seats when the
motors were switched into silence.“This must be the place,” Jimmie heard one of the men saying, as the two
leaped to the ground.“There’s been a fire here not long ago, and there
are the tents, just as described by the boys.”

“Yes,” another voice said, “and there is the _Louise_ back in the
shadows.It’s a wonder we didn’t see her before.”

“But where are the boys?” the first speaker said.“We don’t care where the boys are,” a voice which Jimmie recognized as
that of Doran exclaimed.“The boys can do nothing without these
machines.It seems a pity to break them up.”

“We won’t break them up until we have to!” the other declared.“I was thinking of that,” Doran answered.“Suppose we pack up the tents
and provisions and such other things as we can use and take everything
away into some valley where we can hide the machines and all the rest
until this little excitement blows over.”

“That’s just the idea!” the other answered.“When things quiet down a
little we can get a good big price for these machines.”

“And in the meantime,” Doran continued, “we’ll have to catch the boys if
they interfere with our work.If they don’t, we’ll just pack up the
stuff and fly away in the machines.”

“And the two lads at Quito?” asked the other.“Oh,” Doran replied with a coarse laugh, “it will take them three or
four days to find out where their friends are, and a couple of weeks
more to get new machines, and by that time everything will be all lovely
down in Peru.It seems to be working out all right!”

Jimmie felt the touch of a hand upon his shoulder and in a moment, Carl
whispered in his ear:

“Do you mind the beautiful little plans they’re laying?” the boy asked.“Cunning little plans, so far as we’re concerned!” whispered Jimmie.“What do they mean by everything being lovely down in Peru after a
couple of weeks?” asked Carl.“That sounds mysterious!”

“You may search me!” answered Jimmie.“It looks to me, though, as if the
trouble started here might be merely the advance agent of the trouble
supposed to exist across the Peruvian boundary.”

“I suppose,” Carl went on, “that we’re going to lie right here and let
them pack up our stuff and fly away in our machines?”

“Yes, we are!” replied Jimmie.“What we’re going to do is to give those
fellows a little healthy exercise walking back to Quito.”

Directly Doran and his companion found a few sticks of dry wood which
had been brought in by the boys and began building up the fire, for the
double purpose of warmth and light.Then they both began tumbling the
tinned goods out of the tents and rolling the blankets which the boys
had used for bedding.“Ain’t it about time to call a halt?” asked Jimmie.“It certainly is!” Carl answered.“I wonder where our friend Sam is by
this time?He wouldn’t light out and leave us, would he?”

“I don’t think he would,” was the reply.“I have a notion that this
mix-up is just about to his taste!”

Just as Jimmie was about to show himself, revolvers in hand, preparatory
to sailing away in the machines and leaving the intruders with their
hands held well up, a murmur which seemed to come from a myriad of human
voices vibrated on the air and the tall grass all about the place where
the tents had been pitched seemed to be imbued with life.“Savages!” exclaimed Jimmie.“Gee!” whispered Carl, excitedly.“This location seems to be attracting
attention to-night!What are we going to do?”

“If those outlaws were away,” explained Jimmie, “we’d know well enough
what we ought to do!We’d make a rush for the machines and get aboard,
just as we did before.”

“I wonder if Doran and his companion will have sense enough to try
that?” asked Carl.“If they do, we’ll have to stop them, for we can’t
lose the machines.They ought to be shot, anyway.”

While the boys whispered together the savages, evidently in large
numbers, crept toward the aeroplanes in an ever-narrowing circle.As
luck would have it, the place where Jimmie and Carl were hidden was
permitted by the savages to make a break in the circle because of the
depression in which they lay, their heads on a level with the surface of
the earth.The savages swept almost over them, and in a moment, by lifting their
heads above the grass in the rear of the dusky line, they saw the
attacking party swarming around the tents and the machines.Doran and
his companion were seized, disarmed, and tied up with stout fiber woven
from the bark of a tree.Directly a scouting party brought Sam into the
group.The tramp had apparently surrendered without any attempt at defence, and
the boys wondered a little at that until they found themselves facing
lithe spears which waved significantly to and fro within six inches of
their heads!Then they, too, laid down their automatics, for they
understood very well that there was horrible death in the poisoned
shafts.They, too, were marched to the center of the group, now gathered about
the machines.Doran and his companion gazed at them with terror showing
in their faces, and the tramp seemed to consider the situation as too
serious for comment.He moved closer to the two boys, but was almost
immediately forced back by the savages.In a moment the war chants and ejaculations of victory died out while
two savages who seemed to be in charge of the party spoke together.During this silence, tense with excitement, the distant chug, chug, chug
of motors beat the air.The boys looked aloft for an aeroplane, yet did
not understand how one could possibly be there!The savages heard the clamor of the motors, too, and turned quick faces
of alarm toward their white prisoners, as if they alone could explain
what was coming to pass.Doran and his companion, also, turned
questioning glances toward the two boys, while a slow smile of
comprehension flitted over the face of the tramp.As the welcome sounds came nearer the savages gathered closer and moved
a short distance toward the thicket, their spears extended as if to
repel attack.“Do you know what that is?” he asked with a positive grin.“Sounds like an aeroplane!” suggested Jimmie.“Or like an automobile!” Carl put in.“Aw, how could an automobile get up here?” demanded Jimmie.“Don’t you remember the river road Sam was telling us about not long
ago?” asked Carl.“I guess an automobile could run along that, all
right!”

“Is that so?” asked Jimmie turning to Sam.“A superior machine driven by a superior chauffeur might,” was the
reply.“Anyway, that’s a motor-car coming, and there’s no other way to
get in here.We’ll see the lights in a moment.”

“Gee!” Jimmie exclaimed.“Do you think our friends chased the men who
stole the _Bertha_ up in a high-power automobile?”

“That’s just what I do think!” exclaimed Carl.“And that is undoubtedly the fact,” Sam agreed.Doran and his companion seemed to share in the pleasant anticipations
the boys were now sensing, for they approached them in a friendly manner
and began asking questions regarding the oncoming machine.The savages were still drawing farther away, and Sam occupied his time
during the next moment in finding his way back to the tents and
procuring another automatic revolver which had not been discovered by
the outlaws.He held it so that the two boys caught sight of the brown
barrel and nodded significantly toward Doran and his friend.“He doesn’t mean to let them get away,” said Jimmie to Carl, in a low
aside.“He seems to be next to his job!”

The savages, with their eyes fixed upon the jungle near the river bank,
kept crowding farther away from the machines.The clamor of the motors
came louder every instant, and directly two powerful acetylene lamps
looked out of the tall grass like great blazing eyes.The savages no longer hesitated as to how to meet this new situation.They dropped their spears and whatever else they had in their hands and
broke for the thicket, uttering such cries of fright and terror as the
boys had never imagined could issue forth from human lips.Doran and his
companion sprang for the machines as the savages disappeared.When Ben, Glenn and Mellen came bumping up in the automobile, a minute
later, they saw the two fellows standing by the side of the _Louise_
with their hands held high in the air.Before them stood Sam with a
threatening revolver pushed to within six inches of their faces.“Jerusalem!” exclaimed Ben, springing from the machine.“This looks like
a scene in one of the fierce old dramas they used to put on at the
Bowery theater!Are those the men who stole the _Bertha_?” he added
nodding toward the two whose arms were still held out.“They came here in the _Bertha_!” replied Carl.Mellen,” began Doran, “you know me well enough to know that I
wouldn’t get mixed up in any such thieving scrape!These two boys came
to the field and ran away with the _Louise_.I had orders not to let any
one take the machines away, so I followed them in the _Bertha_.”

“And he merely employed me to go with him!” the other fellow cut in.“They stole the machine!” insisted Jimmie.“I heard them talking about
leaving us here to walk back to Quito and hiding the machines in some
mountain valley until the search for them had died out.They were even
packing up our provisions and tents to take with them when the savages
came up!”

“So those were savages who took to the tall timber?” asked Glenn.“The same kind of people who drove us out of the valley,” answered
Jimmie.“They had the whole bunch pinched when your machine came dancing
merrily out of the woods!”

“And the way the <DW65>s took to the tall timber was a caution!”
exclaimed Carl.“They must be going yet!”

“Mr.Mellen,” broke in Doran, “I insist on being released from this
ridiculous position.I ask you to order this tramp to remove his
revolver.I am not used to such indignities.”

“He is not subject to my orders,” replied Mellen.The tramp looked at Doran with a humorous smile on his face.“I don’t understand,” he said, “how you managed to reach this place in a
road machine.It must have been awful going!”

“It certainly was!” answered Mellen.“Many a time I thought the machine
incapable of making the grades, and on various occasions we nearly
dropped over precipices.”

“I never was so scared in my life!” declared Ben.“Riding an aeroplane is a picture of peace and safety in comparison to
such a whirl as that!” declared Glenn.“I hung on with my toes most of
the way!And,” he added, with a grin, “I saw Ben getting ready to jump
several times.”

“We went so fast I couldn’t jump!” declared Ben.“I must congratulate you on the trip,” Sam cut in in a manner intended
to be friendly.“I don’t think any motor-car ever passed over that river
trail before!You certainly have blazed the way for others!”

“Tell it to the chauffeur!” laughed Mellen.“And now, boys,” he went on,
“seeing you have rescued your precious oiled-silk shelter-tents, we may
as well be getting back to the city.”

“I want to travel back in the _Bertha_!” exclaimed Ben.“And so do I!” Glenn cut in.“No more of that river ride for me!”

“That leaves me to the full command of the motor-car!” laughed Mellen.“I think one of you boys, at least, might ride back with me.”

“Why, if the boys take the machines,” Doran put in, “there’s nothing for
us to do but ride back in the motor-car.”

“You’ll walk so far as I’m concerned!” exclaimed Mellen.“Then I’ll act as first mate of the roadster,” suggested Sam, whereat
Mellen looked at the boys inquiringly.“He’s all right!” Jimmie exclaimed.“We found him here acting as
custodian of the camp,” he continued with a grin.“And you can see for
yourself how he pinched these two thieves.”

“Be careful boy!” almost shouted Doran.“You’ll have to answer for every
word you say against me!”

“I said ‘thieves’!” insisted Jimmie.“I overheard what you said before
the savages came up.You were going to make us walk back to Quito, and
now we’ll give you a dose of your own medicine.You’re the rascals
that’ll do the walking.”

Mellen called the boys aside and, after learning exactly what had taken
place, both at the field and at the camp, fully agreed that the men
ought to be obliged to walk back to Quito.“It will teach them a lesson,” he said, “and, besides, it will keep them
out of mischief for at least twenty-four hours!”

“Now,” Ben said, “Jimmie and I will go back in the _Louise_, and Glenn
and Carl can take the _Bertha_.Mellen, and Sam can return in
the automobile, and we’ll fly just above you along the river trail.If
you tumble over a precipice,” he added, with a smile, “we may be able to
pick you up, or you may be able to help us!”

“There is one thing about it,” Carl suggested, “and that is that we
won’t have to use the flying machines for freight wagons.The automobile
can carry the tents and provisions and everything of that sort back to
Quito.That will make it easier for us to duck about and watch the
course of the automobile.You may need watching, you know,” he added
turning to Mellen.“Especially,” he continued, “if you have Sam Weller
with you!”

The boys mounted the machines and were soon in the air, while Mellen and
Sam entered the motor-car, the latter keeping Doran and his companion
covered with an automatic revolver until the car was ready to start.Both men sprang forward as the wheels began to revolve.“Are you really going away and leave us to walk to Quito?” demanded
Doran.“The savages will be here in an hour after you leave!”

This was an argument which Mellen could not resist.It was perfectly
clear that the men would be murdered by the Indians if left there alone.“Perhaps,” he said, after some hesitation, “we’d better carry you far
enough to get you out of the Indian country.”

“Only five miles!” pleaded Doran.“Jump in!” replied the manager.The two men thanked Mellen effusively, but there was a crafty, scheming
look in Doran’s eyes which told plainly enough that he intended to take
advantage of the kindness of the manager at the very first opportunity.Sam saw the evil expression and placed the automatic within easy reach
of his hand.Doran saw the movement and snarled out an oath.“There’s no need for you to make any gun-play!” he scowled.“When I see a snake,” declared Sam, “I don’t take any chances on being
bitten!I know pretty well the kind of a sneak you are.”

“Look here!” exclaimed Doran, appealing to Mellen, “why don’t you take
us back to Quito and make complaint against us for stealing the machine?It seems to me that that is the correct thing for you to do!”

Mellen considered this proposition gravely for a moment.He believed now
that Doran was in some way mixed up in a conspiracy against the boys.Havens’ telegrams to Ben and
himself, the actions of the two men seemed significant.In fact, the
manager believed that the trouble referred to in Mr.Havens’ messages
had already made its appearance, guided by the hand of Doran!It seemed to him that the man’s plea was entirely reasonable, and yet he
understood that the fellows ought to be kept out of Quito as long as
possible.Even in jail, held only on a charge of grand larceny, Doran
would have little difficulty in securing a lawyer and communicating with
such other desperadoes as might be concerned in the conspiracy.“The savages,” Doran went on, pleadingly, “are scattered all through
this country, from the Colombia boundary line to Peru.It would be plain
murder to leave us here at this time!”

“I half believe the man is right!” Sam agreed.“You know I am right!” insisted Doran.The matter was one which Mellen hesitated to decide.He believed that,
by taking Doran to Quito, he would place the boys in some unknown peril;
and he believed, too, that by leaving the two men in the mountains he
might be contributing to their murder.“What do you think about it?” he asked, turning to Sam.“I wouldn’t turn a thieving dog over to those savages!” was the reply.“No civilized human being would!” Doran exclaimed.“Very well,” Mellen replied.“I’ll take you to the police office at
Quito and ask to have you locked up on a charge of grand larceny.”

“That will be satisfactory,” answered Doran.While entirely satisfied with the decision which had been reached, both
Mellen and Sam did not fully trust the two prisoners.They believed that
at some time during the return trip an attempt at escape would be made.The two pretended to be very much interested in the aeroplanes, which
were almost constantly in sight, yet Mellen saw that they inspected the
trail eagerly as if looking for some soft place to land.Believing that the men would attempt to leave the motor-car only when
within a short distance of Quito, the two did not watch them as closely
as they might have done.The attempt came when the car had covered only
about half the distance between the camp and the city.The chauffeur was coasting down a very steep declivity with the brakes
well in hand and Mellen and Sam were clinging tightly to the sides of
the machine when Doran sprang to his feet and leaped.His companion attempted to follow his example, but Sam’s hand was laid
upon his shoulder at that instant, and the two tumbled into the bottom
of the car.The struggle there was of short duration, for Sam was a
muscular fellow and the other combatant was not inclined to put up much
of a fight.It was impossible to stop the car on the steep grade, and so Mellen and
Sam were obliged to remain inactive while Doran struggled to his feet
and shook his fist at the car uttering as he did so threats of
vengeance.A FINE CURTAIN-RAISER.The sun was rising over the mountains when the flying machines and the
motor-car reached the field where the boys had landed the night before.After the escape of Doran, the aeroplanes had searched the hills and
gorges for the fugitive, but had found no trace of him observable from
the sky.After seeing that the machines were placed in charge of capable and
loyal officers, the boys entered the car with Mellen and were driven to
the hotel.When they reached the entrance they found a little crowd
assembled in the lobby.Messengers from the telegraph office were passing out and in, and the
clerk seemed to be answering a good many questions by ’phone.Mellen
stopped at the office counter while the boys took the elevator for their
rooms unobserved by the clerk in the office.“There’s something strange going on here!” the clerk exclaimed, as Mr.“We have a sheaf of telegrams for you, and a lot more
for those boys who came here last night.”

“Well,” smiled the manager, “you may as well deliver them.”

“Deliver them?” repeated the clerk.“How are we going to deliver them?You can receipt now for the ones which belong to you,” he went on, “but
what are we going to do with those directed to the boys?”

“Why, deliver them!” answered Mellen.“But the boys left the hotel last night!” replied the clerk angrily.“Without paying their bills!”

“But they are in their rooms now,” Mellen assured the clerk.“And they stole woolen blankets off the bed, too!” the clerk almost
shouted.“I ought to have them all arrested!”

As the clerk uttered the words in a loud tone a slender, black-eyed man
who seemed to Mellen to move about the corridor with the sinuous
undulations of a snake, stepped up to the desk.“So the fugitives have returned?” he asked.“Shall I arrest them at
once?You have made the charge, you know!”

“You will find the blankets in the boys’ room,” advised Mellen.“They
took them because they had a long, cold ride before them.”

“It is policy to restore stolen goods after discovery!” snarled the man
who had asked instructions of the clerk, and who occupied the very
honorable position of house detective.“Look here, Gomez!” exclaimed Mellen.The boys
had a right to use the blankets outside of the hotel as well as inside.”

“I shall do as the clerk says!” snarled the detective.“Oh, I suppose we’ll have to let it go if they’ve brought the blankets
back!” replied the clerk, reluctantly.Gomez turned away with a sullen frown on his face, and Mellen saw that
he had made an enemy of the fellow.“These boys are your friends?” asked the clerk of Mellen.“I never saw them until last night,” was the reply, “but I know that
they belong to the party of which Louis Havens, the millionaire aviator,
is the head.I presume the telegrams waiting for me here are from Mr.Havens, who expects to be here within twenty-four hours.”

“Not Louis Havens, the great explorer?” asked the clerk.“The same,” answered Mellen, “and if you’ve anything more to say about
the boys, say it to him.”

Taking the telegrams from the clerk, Mellen went back to the machine
and, after leaving the prisoner with the police, hastened to Ben’s room,
where the other boys were assembled.As he had supposed, the messages
were all from Mr.Havens, and all were repetitions of the warning which
had been sent the previous night.“I don’t understand what it means!” Ben said after the messages had been
read and discussed.“But it is a sure thing that Mr.Havens knows what
he is talking about.”

“I think we’d all better go and get a square meal and go to bed!” Jimmie
observed, rubbing his eyes.“The next time I get up in the night to take
a twenty-mile ride in the air, I won’t.”

“That’s very good sense,” Mellen agreed.“These telegrams, as you see,
state that Mr.Havens cannot possibly reach Quito until some time
to-night.”

“Then we can have a good sleep!” Carl agreed.“And sit up all night
again if we want to.”

“It hasn’t been such a bad night!” Ben observed.“If we had only kept
Doran, everything would be in pretty good shape now.”

“What did the chief of police say when you turned the other gink over to
him?” asked Carl.“He locked him up, didn’t he?”

“Yes, he locked him up!” answered Mellen.“But, before I left the
station, I saw the fellow at the ’phone and I presume he is out on bail
by this time.The police have no recourse if bail is offered.”

“Then I’ll tell you what you do!” advised Ben.“If he is admitted to
bail, you hire a private detective and have him watched.He is sure to
meet with Doran before very long.He may go to the hills to consult with
him, or Doran may come to the city, but the two fellows are certain to
come together!Then Doran can be arrested.”

“That’s a good idea,” Mellen answered, “and I’ll attend to the matter as
soon as I get back to my office.Now, we’ll all go down to a restaurant
and have breakfast.I’m hungry myself just now.”

“What’s the matter with the hotel?” asked Ben.Mellen did not care to explain to the boys exactly what had taken place
down stairs, but he felt that they would be treated with suspicion as
long as they remained there, so he decided to ask them to change their
quarters as soon as they returned from breakfast.Making the reply that the morning _table d’hote_ at the hotel was not
suitable for hungry boys who had been up all night, Mellen went with the
lads to a first-class restaurant.After breakfast he suggested a change
of hotels, saying only that they had already attracted too much
attention at the one where they were stopping, and the boys agreed
without argument.It took only a short time to locate in the new
quarters, and the boys were soon sound asleep.When Ben awoke, some one was knocking at his door, and directly he heard
a low chuckle which betrayed the presence of Jimmie in the corridor.“Get a move on!” the latter shouted.“What’s up?” asked Ben.“Time’s up!” replied Jimmie.“Open up!” almost yelled Carl.Ben sprang out of bed, half-dressed himself, and opened the door.The
first face he saw was that of Mr.Havens, who looked dusty and tired as
if from a long journey.As may be imagined, the greetings between the two were very cordial.In
a moment the boys all flocked into Ben’s room, where Mr.Havens was
advised to freshen up in the bath before entering upon the business in
hand.“You must have had a merry old time with the _Ann_,” laughed Ben.“Never saw anything like it!” exclaimed Mr.“Did she break down?”

“Half a dozen times!”

“Perhaps there was some good reason for it,” suggested Glenn,
significantly.“Indeed there was!” answered Mr.“Couldn’t you catch him?” asked Jimmie.“I could not!” was the reply.While the millionaire remained in the bath-room, the boys discussed all
manner of surmises concerning the accidents which had happened to the
_Ann_.They had not yet heard a word of explanation from Mr.Havens
concerning the warnings of trouble which had been received by wire, but
they understood that the interferences to the big aeroplane were only
part of the general trouble scheme which seemed to have broken loose the
night before.“We don’t know anything about it!” exclaimed Jimmie.“And we won’t know
anything about it until Mr.Havens gets cleaned up and tells us, so we
may as well talk about hens, or white bulldogs, until he gets ready to
open up.By the way,” the boy continued, “where is Sam?”

“Mellen took him down to get him into decent clothes,” Ben answered.“Is he coming back here?” asked Jimmie.Sandra travelled to the garden.“I rather like that fellow.”

“Of course he’s coming back!” Ben replied.“He’s hasn’t got any other
place to go!He’s flat broke and hungry.”

“I thought perhaps he wouldn’t like to meet Mr.Havens,” Jimmie
commented, with a wink at Carl.“And why not?” asked Ben, somewhat amazed.Then the story of Sam Weller’s previous employment at the hangar on Long
Island came out.The boys all declared that they wanted to be present
when Sam met his former employer!“I don’t care what you say about Sam!” Jimmie declared, after the boys
had finished their discussion of the Long Island incident.“I like him
just the same!There’s a kind of a free and easy impudence about him
that gets me.I hope he’ll stay with us!”

“He might ride with Mr.Havens in the _Ann_!” laughed Carl.“Well, I don’t believe Mr.Havens would object, at that!” declared
Jimmie.“Certainly he wouldn’t object!” replied the millionaire, coming out of
the bath-room door with a smile on his face.“And so Sam Weller showed
up here, did he?” he asked as he seated himself.“The boy is a
first-class aviator, but he used to get his little finger up above his
nose too often, so I had to let him go.Did he tell any of you boys how
he happened to drift into this section?”

“He told me,” Jimmie replied, “that he was making a leisurely trip from
the Isthmus of Panama to Cape Horn.He looked the part, too, for I guess
he hadn’t had a square meal for several decades, and his clothes looked
as if they had been collected out of a rag-bag!”

“He’s a resourceful chap!” Mr.“He’s a first-class
aviator, as I said, in every way, except that he is not dependable, and
that of course spoils everything.”

“He’s got the nerve!” Carl observed.“He certainly has!” agreed Jimmie.Havens said in a moment, “if you boys like Sam, we’ll take
him along.We have room for one more in the party.”

“And that brings us down to business!” exclaimed Jimmie.“Right here,”
he went on, “is where we want you to turn on the spot light.We’ve had
so many telegrams referring to trouble that we’re beginning to think
that Trouble is our middle name!”

“Perhaps we would better wait until Mellen and Sam return,” suggested
Mr.“That will save telling the story two or three times.”

“Is Sam Weller really his name?” asked Jimmie.“I don’t think so,” answered Havens.“I think it is merely a name he
selected out of the Pickwick Papers.While in my employ on Long Island
several people who knew him by another name called to visit with him.Now and then I questioned these visitors, but secured little
information.”

“Perhaps he’s a Pittsburg Millionaire or a Grand Duke in disguise!”
suggested Carl.“And again,” the boy went on, “he may be merely the
black sheep in some very fine family.”

“There’s something a little strange about the boy,” Mr.Havens agreed,
“but I have never felt myself called upon to examine into his
antecedents.”

“Here he comes now!” cried Carl.“With a new suit of clothes on his back
and a smile lying like a benediction all over his clean shave!”

The boys were glad to see that the millionaire greeted Sam as an old
friend.For his part, Sam extended his hand to his former employer and
answered questions as if he had left his employ with strong personal
letters of recommendation to every crowned head in the world!“And now for the story,” Mellen said after all were seated.“And when you speak of trouble,” Jimmie broke in, “always spell it with
a big ‘T’, for that’s the way it opened out on us!”

“I’m going to begin right at the beginning,” Mr.Havens said, with a
smile, “and the beginning begins two years ago.”

“Gee!” exclaimed Jimmie.“That’s a long time for trouble to lie in wait
before jumping out at a fellow!”

“In fact,” Mr.Havens went on, “the case we have now been dumped into,
heels over head, started in New York City two years ago, when Milo
Redfern, cashier of the Invincible Trust Company, left the city with a
half million dollars belonging to the depositors.”

“That’s a good curtain lifter!” exclaimed Carl.“When you open a drama
with a thief and a half million dollars, you’ve started something!”




                               CHAPTER X.

                        WHERE THE TROUBLE BEGAN.“When Redfern disappeared,” Mr.Havens went on, “we employed the best
detective talent in America to discover his whereabouts and bring him
back.The best detective talent in America failed.”

“That ain’t the way they put it in stories!” Carl cut in.“We spent over a hundred thousand dollars trying to bring the thief to
punishment, and all we had to show for this expenditure at the end of
the year was a badly spelled letter written—at least mailed—on the lower
East Side in New York, conveying the information that Redfern was hiding
somewhere in the mountains of Peru.”

“There you go!” exclaimed Ben.“The last time we went out on a little
excursion through the atmosphere, we got mixed up with a New York murder
case, and also with Chinese smugglers, and now it seems that we’ve got
an embezzlement case to handle.”

“Embezzlement case looks good to me!” shouted Jimmie.“Hiding in the mountains of Peru?” repeated Sam.“Now I wonder if a man
hiding in the mountains of Peru has loyal friends or well-paid agents in
the city of Quito.”

“There!” exclaimed Mr.“Sam has hit the nail on the head the
first crack.I never even told the boys when they left New York that
they were bound for Peru on a mission in which I was greatly interested.I thought that perhaps they would get along better and have a merrier
time if they were not loaded down with official business.”

“That wouldn’t have made any difference!” announced Carl.“We’d have
gone right along having as much fun as if we were in our right minds!”

“When I started away from the hangar in the _Ann_,” Mr.Havens
continued, with a smile at the interruption, “I soon saw that some one
in New York was interested in my remaining away from Peru.”

“Redfern’s friends of course!” suggested Mellen.“Exactly!” replied the millionaire.“And Redfern’s friends appeared on the scene last night, too,” Jimmie
decided.“And they managed to make quite a hit on their first
appearance, too,” he continued.“And this man Doran is at present ready
for another engagement if you please.He’s a foxy chap!”

“I’m sorry he got away!” Mellen observed.“Yes, it’s too bad,” Mr.Havens agreed, “but, in any event, we couldn’t
have kept him in prison here isolated from his friends.”

“There’s one good thing about it,” Ben observed, “and that is that we’ve
already set a trap to catch him.”

“How’s that?” asked the millionaire.Mellen has employed a detective to follow Doran’s companion on the
theory that sometime, somewhere, the two will get together again.”

“That’s a very good idea!” Mr.“Now about this man Redfern,” Mr.“Is he believed to be
still in the mountains of Peru?”

“I have at least one very good reason for supposing so,” answered the
millionaire.“Yes, I think he is still there.”

“Give us the good reason!” exclaimed Carl.“I guess we want to know how
to size things up as we go along!”

“The very good reason is this,” replied Mr.Havens with a smile, “the
minute we started in our airships for the mountains of Peru, obstacles
began to gather in our way.The friends or accomplices of Redfern began
to flutter the instant we headed toward Peru.”

“That strikes me as being a good and sufficient reason for believing
that he is still there!” Mellen commented.“Yes, I think it is!” replied the millionaire.“And it is an especially
good reason,” he went on, “when you understand that all our previous
plans and schemes for Redfern’s capture have never evoked the slightest
resistance.”

“Then the embezzler is in Peru, all right, all right!” laughed Carl.“But Peru is a very large country,” suggested Mr.“There’s a good deal of land in the country,” agreed Jimmie.“When you
come to measure the soil that stands up on end, I guess you’d find Peru
about as large as the United States of America!”

“What are the prospects?” asked Mellen.“What I mean,” he continued, “is
this: Can you put your finger on any one spot on the map of Peru and
say—look there first for Redfern.”

“Yes,” replied Mr.Havens, “I think I can.If you ask me to do it, I’ll
just cover Lake Titicaca with my thumb and tell you to pull Redfern out
of the water as soon as you get to that part of old Incaland!”

“Je-rusalem!” exclaimed Jimmie.“And that takes us right down to the
haunted temple!”

“What kind of a lake is this Titicaca?” asked Glenn.“Don’t you ever read anything except base-ball stories and police court
records?” asked Ben, turning to his friend.“Before I was seven years
old I knew that Lake Titicaca is larger than Lake Erie; that it is five
inches higher in the summer than in the winter, and that the longer you
keep a piece of iron or steel in it the brighter it will become.”

“Is it a fact that the waters of this lake do not rust metal?” asked
Mellen.“That seems to me to be a peculiar circumstance.”

“I have often heard it stated as a fact,” replied Mr.“Ask any one who knows, if you won’t believe me,” Ben went on with a
provoking smile.“It is said that Lake Titicaca represents the oldest
civilization in the world.There are temples built of stones larger than
those used in the pyramids of Egypt.The stones have remained in
position after a century because of the nicety with which they are
fitted together.It is said to be impossible to drive the finest needle
between the seams of the walls composed of granite rocks.”

“But what did they want to build such temples and fortresses for?”
demanded Jimmie.“Why didn’t they spend more time playing base-ball?”

“You’re a nut on base-ball!” laughed Ben.“The temples which exist to-day were there when the Incas settled the
country,” the boy continued.“They knew no more of their origin than we
do at this time!”

“They may be a million years old!” exclaimed Carl.“Perhaps that’s as good a guess as any,” replied Ben.“We don’t know how
old they are, and never shall know.”

“Isn’t it a little remarkable,” said Mellen, “that an act of
embezzlement committed in New York City more than two years ago should
lead to a visit to ruined temples in Peru?”

“Now about this Lake Titicaca, about which Ben has given us a bit of
history,” Mr.Havens said, after replying briefly to Mellen’s question.“We have every reason to believe that Redfern has been living in some of
the ancient structures bordering the lake.”

“Did you ever try to unearth the East Side person who wrote the letter
you have just referred to?” asked Ben.“We have spent thousands of dollars in quest of that person,” replied
the millionaire, “and all to no purpose.”

“And what do we do to-morrow?” asked Jimmie, breaking into the
conversation in true boy-fashion.“Why, we’re going to start for Peru!” cried Carl.“And the haunted temples!” laughed Ben.“Honest, boys,” he went on, “I
don’t believe there’s anything in this haunted temple yarn.There may be
temples which are being guarded from the ravages of the superstitious by
interested persons who occasionally play the ghost, but so far as any
supernatural manifestations are concerned the idea is ridiculous.”

“Don’t you ever say anything like that in the vicinity of Lake
Titicaca,” Mellen suggested.“If you do, the natives will suddenly
discover that you are robbers, bent on plunder, and some night, your
bodies may find a resting-place at the bottom of the lake.”

“Do they really believe the temples to be haunted?” asked Glenn.“There are people in whose interest the superstition is kept up,”
replied Ben.“These interested people would doubtless gladly perform the
stunt just suggested by Mellen.”

“I think I’ve got the combination now!” Jimmie laughed.“See if I’m
right.The temples still hold stores of gold, and those searching for
the treasure are keeping adventurous people away by making the ghost
walk.”

“That’s the idea!” Ben replied.“And, look here!” Sam broke in.“Why shouldn’t this man Redfern have a
choice collection of ghosts of his own?”

“That’s an idea, too,” Mr.“I’ll bet he has!” Jimmie insisted.“Then we’ll examine the homes of the ghosts first,” grinned Jimmie.“We’ll walk up to the portal and say: ‘Mr.Ghost, if you’ll materialize
Redfern, we’ll give you half of the reward offered for him by the trust
company.’ That ought to bring him, don’t you think?”

“And here’s another idea,” Sam interrupted.“If Redfern has ghosts in
the temple in which he is hiding—if he really is hiding in a Peruvian
temple—his ghosts will be the most active ghosts on the job.In other
words, we’ll hear more about his haunted temple than any other haunted
temple in all Peru.His ghosts will be in a constant state of eruption!”

“And that’s another good idea,” suggested Mr.“Oh, Sam is wise all right,” Jimmie went on.“I knew that the minute he
told me about unearthing the provisions in the tent before he knew
whether the savages were coming back!”

“Gentlemen,” began Sam, with one of his smooth smiles, “I was so hungry
that I didn’t much care whether the savages came back or not.It
appeared to me then that the last morsel of food that had passed my lips
had exhausted itself at a period farther away than the birth of Adam!”

“You must have been good and hungry!” laughed Mellen.“What did you wander off into that country for?” asked Jimmie.“You
might have known better.”

“I couldn’t remain in the Canal Zone,” replied Sam, “because no one
would give me a job.Everybody seemed to want to talk to me for my own
good.Even the chief in charge of the Gatun dam contract told me——”

“Do you know the chief in charge of the Gatun dam contract?” asked
Havens, casually.“You spoke of him a moment ago as if you had met him
personally.”

“Well, you see,” Sam went on, hesitatingly, “you see I just happened
to——”

The confusion of the young man was so great that no further questions
were asked of him at that time, but all understood that he had
inadvertently lifted a curtain which revealed previous acquaintance with
men like the chief in charge of the Gatun dam.The boy certainly was a
mystery, and they all decided to learn the truth about him before
parting company.Havens said, breaking a rather oppressive silence, “are we
all ready for the roof of the world to-morrow?”

“You bet we’re all ready!” cried Jimmie.“I’m ready right now!” exclaimed Carl.“Will you go with us, Sam?” asked Mr.“I should be glad to!” was the reply.No more was said on the subject at that time, yet all saw by the
expression on the tramp’s face how grateful he was for this new chance
in life which Mr.“Jerusalem!” exclaimed Jimmie in a moment, jumping to his feet and
rushing toward the door.“I’ve forgotten something!”

“Something important?” asked Ben.I should say so!” replied Jimmie.“I forgot to eat my
dinner, and I haven’t had any supper yet!”

“How did you come to do it?” asked Mellen.“I didn’t wake up!” was the reply.“And now,” the boy went on, “you see
I’ve got to go and eat two meals all at once.”

“I’ll eat one of them for you,” suggested Sam.“And I’ll eat the other!” volunteered Ben.“Yes you will,” grinned Jimmie.“I don’t need any help when it comes to
supplying the region under my belt with provisions.”

The boys hustled away to the dining-room, it being then about seven
o’clock, while Mr.Havens and Mellen hastened back to the manager’s
office.Passing through the public lobby, the manager entered his private room
and opened a sheaf of telegrams lying on the table.He read it carefully, twice
over, and then turned a startled face toward the manager.The manager glanced at the millionaire’s startled face for a moment and
then asked, his voice showing sympathy rather than curiosity:

“Unpleasant news, Mr.Havens?”

“Decidedly so!” was the reply.The millionaire studied over the telegram for a moment and then laid it
down in front of the manager.“Read it!” he said.The message was brief and ran as follows:

  “Ralph Hubbard murdered last night!Private key to deposit box A
  missing from his desk!”

“Except for the information that some one has been murdered,” Mellen
said, restoring the telegram to its owner, “this means little or nothing
to me.I don’t think I ever knew Ralph Hubbard!”

“Ralph Hubbard,” replied the millionaire gravely, “was my private
secretary at the office of the Invincible Trust Company, New York.All
the papers and information collected concerning the search for Milo
Redfern passed through his hands.In fact, the letter purporting to have
been written and mailed on the lower East Side of New York was addressed
to him personally, but in my care.”

“And deposit box A?” asked Mellen.“Pardon me,” he added in a moment, “I
don’t seek to pry into your private affairs, but the passing of the
telegram to me seemed to indicate a desire on your part to take me into
your confidence in this matter.”

“Deposit box A,” replied the millionaire, “contained every particle of
information we possess concerning the whereabouts of Milo Redfern.”

“I see!” replied Mellen.“I see exactly why you consider the murder and
robbery so critically important at this time.”

“I have not only lost my friend,” Mr.Havens declared, “but it seems to
me at this time that I have also lost all chance of bringing Redfern to
punishment.”

“I’m sorry,” consoled Mellen.“I don’t know what to do now,” the millionaire exclaimed.“With the
information contained in deposit box A in their possession, the
associates of Redfern may easily frustrate any move we may make in
Peru.”

“So it seems!” mused Mellen.“But this man Redfern is still a person of
considerable importance!Men who have passed out of the range of human
activities seldom have power to compel the murder of an enemy many
hundreds of miles away.”

“I have always believed,” Mr.Havens continued, “that the money
embezzled by Redfern was largely used in building up an institution
which seeks to rival the Invincible Trust Company.”

“In that case,” the manager declared, “the whole power and influence of
this alleged rival would be directed toward the continued absence from
New York of Redfern.”

“Exactly!” the millionaire answered.“Then why not look in New York first?” asked Mellen.“Until we started away on this trip,” was the reply, “we had nothing to
indicate that the real clew to the mystery lay in New York.”

“Did deposit box A contain papers connecting Redfern’s embezzlement with
any of the officials of the new trust company?” asked the manager.“Certainly!” was the reply.The manager gave a low whistle of amazement and turned to his own
telegrams.The millionaire sat brooding in his chair for a moment and
then left the room.At the door of the building, he met Sam Weller.Havens,” the young man said, drawing the millionaire aside, “I want
permission to use one of your machines for a short time to-night.”

“Granted!” replied Mr.“I’ve got an idea,” Sam continued, “that I can pick up valuable
information between now and morning.I may have to make a long flight,
and so I’d like to take one of the boys with me if you do not object.”

“They’ll all want to go,” suggested the millionaire.“I know that,” laughed Sam, “and they’ve been asleep all day, and will
be prowling around asking questions while I’m getting ready to leave.I
don’t exactly know how I’m going to get rid of them.”

“Which machine do you want?” asked Mr.“The _Ann_, sir, if it’s all the same to you.”

“You’re quite welcome to her,” the millionaire returned.“Well, then, with your permission,” continued Sam, “I’ll smuggle Jimmie
out to the field and we’ll be on our way.The machine has plenty of
gasoline on board, I take it, and is perfect in other ways?”

“I believe her to be in perfect condition, and well supplied with fuel,”
was the answer.“She’s the fastest machine in the world right now.”

Sam started away, looking anything but a tramp in his new clothes, but
turned back in a moment and faced his employer.“If we shouldn’t be back by morning,” he said, then, “don’t do any
worrying on our account.Start south in your machines and you’ll be
certain to pick us up somewhere between Quito and Lake Titicaca.If you
don’t pick us up within a day or two,” the boy continued in a hesitating
tone, “you’ll find a letter addressed to yourself at the local
post-office.”

“Look here, Sam,” suggested Mr.Havens, “why don’t you tell me a little
more about yourself and your people?”

“Sometime, perhaps, but not now,” was the reply.“The letter, you
understand,” he continued, “is not to be opened until you have
reasonable proof of my death.”

“I understand!” the millionaire answered.“But here’s another thing,” he
added, “you say that we may find you between Quito and Lake Titicaca.Are you acquainted with that region?”

“Well, I know something about it!” replied Sam.“You see,” he continued,
“when I left your employ in the disgraceful manner which will at once
occur to you, I explained to Old Civilization that she might go and hang
herself for all of me.I ducked into the wilderness, and since that time
I’ve spent many weeks along what is known as the roof of the world in
Peru.”

“I wish you luck in your undertaking!” Mr.Havens said as the young man
turned away, “and the only advice I give you at parting is that you take
good care of yourself and Jimmie and enter upon no unnecessary risks!”

“That’s good advice, too!” smiled Sam, and the two parted with a warm
clasp of the hands.After leaving the millionaire aviator at the telegraph office, Sam
hastened to the hotel where the boys were quartered and called Jimmie
out of the little group in Ben’s room.They talked for some moments in
the corridor, and then Jimmie thrust his head in at the half-open door
long enough to announce that he was going out with Sam to view the city.The boys were all on their feet in an instant.“Me, too!” shouted Ben.“You can’t lose me!” cried Carl.Glenn was at the door ready for departure with the others.“No, no!” said Sam shaking his head.“Jimmie and I are just going out
for a little stroll.Unfortunately I can take only one person besides
myself into some of the places where I am going.”

The boys shut the door with a bang, leaving Carl on the outside.The lad
turned the knob of the door and opened and closed it to give the
impression that he, too, had returned to the apartment.Then he moved
softly down the corridor and, still keeping out of sight, followed Sam
and Jimmie out in the direction of the field where the machines had been
left.The two conversed eagerly, sometimes excitedly during the walk, but of
course, Carl could hear nothing of what was being said.There was quite
a crowd assembled around the machines, and so Carl had little difficulty
in keeping out of sight as he stepped close to the _Ann_.After talking
for a moment or two with one of the officers in charge of the machines,
Sam and Jimmie leaped into the seats and pushed the starter.As they did so Jimmie felt a clutch at his shoulders, and then a light
body settled itself in the rather large seat beside him.“You thought you’d get away, didn’t you?” grinned Carl.“Look here!” shouted Jimmie as the powerful machine swept across the
field and lifted into the air, “you can’t go with us!”

“Oh, I can’t?” mocked Carl.“I don’t know how you’re going to put me
off!You don’t want to stop the machine now, of course!”

“But, see here!” insisted Jimmie, “we’re going on a dangerous mission!We’re likely to butt into all kinds of trouble.And, besides,” he
continued, “Sam has provisions for only two.You’ll have to go hungry if
you travel with us.We’ve only five or six meals with us!”

“So you’re planning a long trip, eh?” scoffed Carl.“What will the boys
say about your running off in this style?”

“Oh, keep still!” replied Jimmie.“We’re going off on a mission for Mr.You never should have butted in!”

“Oh, let him go!” laughed Sam, as the clamor of the motors gradually
made conversation impossible.“Perhaps he’ll freeze to death and drop
off before long.I guess we’ve got food enough!”

There was no moon in the sky as yet, but the tropical stars looked down
with surprising brilliancy.The country below lay spread out like a
great map.As the lights of Quito faded away in the distance, dark
mountain gorges which looked like giant gashes in the face of mother
earth, mountain cones which seemed to seek companionship with the stars
themselves, and fertile valleys green because of the presence of
mountain streams, swept by sharply and with the rapidity of scenes in a
motion-picture house.As had been said, the _Ann_ had been constructed for the private use of
the millionaire aviator, and was considered by experts to be the
strongest and swiftest aeroplane in the world.On previous tests she had
frequently made as high as one hundred miles an hour on long trips.The
motion of the monster machine in the air was so stable that the
millionaire had often taken prizes for endurance which entitled him to
medals for uninterrupted flights.Jimmie declares to this day that the fastest express train which ever
traveled over the gradeless lines of mother earth had nothing whatever
on the flight of the _Ann_ that night!Although Sam kept the machine
down whenever possible, there were places where high altitudes were
reached in crossing cone summits and mountain chains.At such times the temperature was so low that the boys shivered in their
seat, and more than once Jimmie and Carl protested by signs and gestures
against such high sailing.At two o’clock when the moon rose, bringing every detail of the country
into bold relief, Sam circled over a green valley and finally brought
the aeroplane down to a rest hardly more than four thousand feet above
sea-level.It was warm here, of course, and the two boys almost dropped
from their seat as the fragrant air of the grass-grown valley reached
their nostrils.While Sam busied himself with the running gear of the
flying machine, Jimmie and Carl sprawled out on the lush grass and
compared notes.The moonlight struck the valley so as to illuminate its
western rim while the eastern surface where the machine lay was still
heavy in shadows.“Jiminy!” exclaimed Jimmie, lifting himself on one elbow and gazing at
the wrinkled cones standing all around the valley.“I wonder how Sam
ever managed to drop into this cosy little nest without breaking all our
necks.”

Sam, who seemed to be unaffected by the cold and the strain of the long
flight, stood, oil-can in hand, when the question was asked.In a moment
he walked over to where the boys lay.“I can tell you about that,” he said with a smile.“Not long ago I had a
job running an old ice-wagon of an aeroplane over this country for a
naturalist.We passed this spot several times, and at last came back
here for a rest.Not to put too fine a point upon it, as Micawber would
say, we remained here so long that I became thoroughly acquainted with
the country.It is a lonesome little valley, but a pleasant one.”

“Well, what did we come here for?” asked Carl, in a moment, “and how far
are we from Quito?Seems like a thousand miles!”

“We are something like four hundred miles from the capital city of
Ecuador,” Sam replied, “and the reason why we landed here will be
disclosed when you chase yourselves along the valley and turn to the
right around the first cliff and come face to face with the cunningest
little lake you ever saw, also the haunted temple which stands there!”




                              CHAPTER XII.“A haunted temple?” echoed Jimmie.“I thought the haunted temples were a
lot farther south.”

“There are haunted temples all over Peru, if you leave it to the
natives,” answered Sam.“Whenever there is a reason for keeping
strangers away from such ruins as we are about to visit, the ghosts come
forth at night in white robes and wave weird lights above skeleton
faces.”

“Quit it!” cried Carl.“I’ve got the creeps running up and down my back
right now!Bring me my haunted temples by daylight!”

“Yes,” scorned Jimmie, “we’ll bring you a little pet ghost in a
suit-case.That would be about your size!”

“Honest,” grinned the boy, “I’m scared half to death.”

“What’s the specialty of the ghosts who inhabit this ruined temple?”
asked Jimmie.“Can’t you give us some idea of their antics?”

“If I remember correctly,” Sam replied, with a laugh, “the specialty of
the spirits to whom I am about to introduce you consists of low, soft
music.How does that suit?”

“I tell you to quit it!” cried Carl.“After I prepare the aeroplane for another run,” Sam went on, with a
grin, “I’ll take you around to the temple, if you like.”

“Mother of Moses!” cried Carl.“My hair’s all on end now; and I won’t
dare look into a mirror in the morning for fear I’ll find it turned
white.”

“There’s a strange feeling in my system, too!” Jimmie declared, “but I
think it comes from a lack of sustenance.”

“Jimmie,” declared Carl reproachfully, “I believe you would pick the
pocket of a wailing ghost of a ham sandwich, if he had such a thing
about him!”

“Sure I would!” answered the boy.“What would a ghost want of a ham
sandwich?In those old days the people didn’t eat pork anyway.If you
read the history of those days, you’ll find no mention of the wriggly
little worms which come out of pigs and made trouble for the human
race.”

“Well, if you’re ready now,” Sam broke in, “we’ll take a walk around the
corner of the cliff and see if the ghosts are keeping open house
to-night.”

“You really don’t believe in these ghosts, do you?” asked Jimmie.“I do not!” was the reply.“There ain’t no such animal, is there?” asked Carl.“I have never witnessed any ‘supernatural’ things,” Sam answered, “which
could not be traced eventually to some human agency.Usually to some
interested human agency.”

“Well,” grinned Carl, “if there ain’t any ghosts at this ruined temple,
what’s the use of my going there to see them?”

“You may remain and watch the machine if you care to,” Sam replied.“While we are supposed to be in a valley rarely frequented by human
kind, it may be just as well to leave some one on guard.For instance,”
the young man went on, “a jaguar might come along and eat up the
motors!”

“Jaguars?” exclaimed Carl.“Are they the leopard-like animals that chase
wild horses off the pampas of Brazil, and devour men whenever they get
particularly hungry?”

“The same!” smiled Sam.“Then I want to see the ghosts!” exclaimed Carl.“Come along, then,” advised Sam.“If you didn’t know Carl right well,” Jimmie explained, as they walked
along, “you’d really think he’d tremble at the sight of a ghost or a
wild animal, but he’s the most reckless little idiot in the whole bunch!He’ll talk about being afraid, and then he’ll go and do things that any
boy in his right mind ought not to think of doing.”

“I had an idea that that was about the size of it!” smiled Sam.Presently the party turned the angle of the cliff and came upon a placid
little mountain lake which lay glistening under the moonlight.“Now, where’s your ruined temple?” asked Carl.“At the southern end of the lake,” was the reply.“I see it!” cried Jimmie.“There’s a great white stone that might have
formed part of a tower at one time, and below it is an opening which
looks like an entrance to the New York subway with the lights turned
off.”

The old temple at the head of the lake had frequently been visited by
scientists and many descriptions of it had been written.It stood boldly
out on a headland which extended into the clear waters, and had
evidently at one time been surrounded by gardens.“I don’t see anything very mysterious about that!” Carl remarked.“It
looks to me as if contractors had torn down a cheap old building in
order to erect a skyscraper on the site, and then been pulled off the
job.”

“Wait until you get to it!” warned Jimmie.“I’m listening right now for the low, soft music!” laughed Carl.“Does any one live there?” asked Jimmie in a moment.“As the place is thought by the natives to be haunted,” Sam answered,
“the probability is that no one has set foot inside the place since the
naturalist and myself explored its ruined corridors several weeks ago.”

The boys passed farther on toward the temple, and at last paused on the
north side of a little arm of the lake which would necessitate a wide
detour to the right.From the spot where they stood, the walls of the temple glittered as if
at sometime in the distant past they had been ornamented with designs in
silver and gold.The soft wind of the valley sighed through the openings
mournfully, and it required no vigorous exercise of the imagination to
turn the sounds into man-made music.“Come on, Jimmie,” Carl shouted.“Let’s go and get a front seat.The
concert is just about to begin!”

“There is no hurry!” Jimmy answered.While the three stood viewing the scene, one which never passed from
their memory, a tall, stately figure passed out of the entrance to the
old temple and moved with dignified leisure toward the margin of the
lake.“Now, who’s that?” demanded Carl.“The names of the characters appear on the program in the order of their
entrance!” suggested Jimmie.“Honest, boys,” Sam whispered, “I think you fellows deserve a medal
apiece.Instead of being awed and frightened, standing as you do in the
presence of the old temple, and seeing, as you do, the mysterious figure
moving about, one would think you were occupying seats at a minstrel
show!”

“You said yourself,” insisted Jimmie, “that there wasn’t any such thing
as ghosts.”

“That’s right,” exclaimed Carl.“What’s the use of getting scared at
something that doesn’t exist?”

“The only question in my mind at the present time,” Jimmie went on, with
a grin, “is just this: Is that fellow over there carrying a gun?”

While the boys talked in whispers, Sam had been moving slowly to the
west so as to circle the little cove which separated him from the
temple.In a moment the boys saw him beckoning them to him and pointing toward
the ruins opposite.The figure which had been before observed was now standing close to the
lip of the lake, waving his hands aloft, as if in adoration or
supplication.This posture lasted only a second and then the figure
disappeared as if by magic.There were the smooth waters of the lake with the ruined temple for a
background.There were the moonbeams bringing every detail of the scene
into strong relief.Nothing had changed, except that the person who a
moment before had stood in full view had disappeared as if the earth had
opened at his feet.“Now what do you think of that?” demanded Jimmie.“Say,” chuckled Carl, “do you think that fellow is custodian of the
temple, and has to do that stunt every night, the same as a watchman in
New York has to turn a key in a clock every hour?”

Jimmie nudged his chum in the ribs in appreciation of the observation,
and then stood silent, his eyes fixed on the broken tower across the
cove.While he looked a red light burned for an instant at the apex of the old
tower, and in an instant was followed by a blue light farther up on the
cliff.“You didn’t answer my question,” Carl insisted, in a moment.“Do you
think they pull off this stunt here every night?”

“Oh, keep still!” exclaimed Jimmie.“They don’t have to pull it off
every night.They only put the play on when there’s an audience.”

“An audience?” repeated Carl.“How do they know they’ve got an
audience?”

“Chump!” replied Jimmie scornfully.“Do you think any one can sail an
aeroplane like the _Ann_ over this country without its being seen?Of
course they know they’ve got an audience.”

By this time the boys had advanced to the place where Sam was standing.They found that young man very much interested in the proceedings, and
also very much inclined to silence.“Did you see anything like that when you were here before?” asked
Jimmie.“Did they put the same kind of a show on for you?”

Sam shook his head gravely.“Well, come on!” Carl cried.“Let’s chase around the cove and get those
front seats you spoke about.”

“Wait, boys!” Sam started to say, but before the words were well out of
his mouth the two lads were running helter-skelter along the hard white
beach which circled the western side of the cove.“Come back!” he called to them softly.“It isn’t safe.”

The boys heard the words but paid no heed, so Sam followed swiftly on in
pursuit.He came up with them only after they had reached the very steps
which had at some distant time formed an imposing entrance to a sacred
temple.“What are you going to do?” he demanded.“We’re going inside!” replied Carl.“What do you think we came here for?I guess we’ve got to see the inside.”

“Don’t take any unnecessary risks!” advised Sam.“What’d you bring us here for?” asked Carl.“Oh, come on!” exclaimed Jimmie.“Let’s all go in together!”

Sam hesitated, but the boys seized him by the arms and almost forced him
along.In a moment, however, he was as eager as the others.“Do you mean to say,” asked Jimmie, as they paused for a moment on a
broad stone slab which lay before the portal of the ruined temple, “that
you went inside on your former visit?”

“I certainly did!” was the reply.“Then why are you backing up now?” asked Carl.“On my previous visit,” Sam explained, standing with his back against
the western wall of the entrance, “there were no such demonstrations as
we have seen to-night.Now think that over, kiddies, and tell me what it
means.It’s mighty puzzling to me!”

“Oh, we’ve got the answer to that!” exclaimed Jimmie.“Did you come here
in an aeroplane, or did you walk in?”

“We came in on an aeroplane, early in the morning,” was the reply.“That’s the answer!” exclaimed Jimmie.“The people who are operating
these ghost stunts did not know you were coming because they saw no
lights in the sky.Now we came down with a noise like an express train
and a great big acetylene lamp burning full blast.Don’t you see?”

“That’s the idea!” Carl cried.“The actors and stage hands all
disappeared as soon as you showed around the angle of the cliff.”

“But why should they go through what you call their stunts at this time,
and not on the occasion of my former visit?” asked Sam.“I’ll tell you,” replied Jimmie wrinkling his freckled nose, “there’s
some one who is interested in the case which called us to Peru doing
those stunts.”

“In that case,” Sam declared, “they have a definite reason for keeping
us out of this particular ruin!”

“That’s the idea!” exclaimed Jimmie.“So far as we know, this man
Redfern or some of his associates may be masquerading as ghosts.”

“I came to this temple to-night,” explained Sam, “thinking that perhaps
this might be one of the way stations on the road to Lake Titicaca.”

“You have guessed it!” exclaimed Jimmie.“The men who have been sent
south to warn Redfern are doing their first stunts here!”

“And that,” said Sam, “makes our position a dangerous one!”




                             CHAPTER XIII.“I wonder if they expect to scare us out of the country by such
demonstrations as that?” scoffed Carl.“There is, doubtless, some reason for this demonstration,” Sam observed,
thoughtfully, “other than the general motive to put us in terror of
haunted temples, but just now I can’t see what it is.”

“Redfern may be hiding in there!” suggested Jimmie, with a wink.“Go on!” exclaimed Carl.Havens say that Redfern was in the
vicinity of Lake Titicaca?How could he be here, then?”

“Mr.Havens only said that Redfern was believed to be in the vicinity of
Lake Titicaca,” Sam corrected.“Then they don’t even know where he is!” exclaimed Carl.“Of course they don’t,” laughed Sam.“If they did, they’d go there and
get him.That’s an easy one to answer!”

“Well, if Redfern isn’t in that ruin,” Jimmie declared, “then his own
friends don’t know where he is!”

“Yes, it seems to me,” Sam agreed, “that the men who are trying to reach
him are as much at sea as we are regarding his exact location.”

“If they wasn’t,” Jimmie declared, “they wouldn’t be staging such plays
as that on general principles!”

“Well!” exclaimed Carl.“Here we stand talking as if we had positive
information that the Redfern gang is putting on those stunts, while, as
a matter of fact, we don’t know whether they are or not!”

“And that’s a fact, too!” said Jimmie.“The people in there may be
ignorant of the fact that a man named Redfern ever existed.”

“But the chances are that the Redfern bunch is doing the work all the
same!” insisted Sam.“The only way to find out is to go on in and see!” declared Carl.“Well, come on, then!” exclaimed Jimmie.The two boys darted in together, leaving Sam standing alone for an
instant.He saw the illumination thrown on the interior walls by their
searchlights and lost no time in following on after them.There was not even the sound of bird’s
call or wing.The moonlight, filtering in through a break in what had
once been a granite roof, showed bare white walls with little heaps of
debris in the corners.“It seems to me,” Sam said, as he looked around, “that the ghosts have
chosen a very uncomfortable home.”

“There must be other rooms,” suggested Carl.“There are two which still retain the appearance of apartments as
originally constructed,” replied Sam, “one to the right, and one to the
left.There seems, also, to have been an extension at the rear, but that
is merely a heap of hewn stones at this time.”

As the young man ceased speaking the two boys darted through an opening
in the west wall, swinging their flashlights about as they advanced into
what seemed to be a stone-walled chamber of fair size.Following close
behind, Sam saw the lads directing the rays of their electrics upon a
series of bunks standing against the west wall.The sleeping places were
well provided with pillows and blankets, and seemed to have been very
recently occupied.Sam stepped closer and bent over one of the bunks.“Now, what do you think about ghosts and ghost lights?” asked Jimmie.“These ghosts,” Carl cut in, “seem to have a very good idea as to what
constitutes comfort.”

“Three beds!” exclaimed Jimmie, flashing his light along the wall.“And
that must mean three ghosts!”

Sam proceeded to a corner of the room as yet uninvestigated and was not
much surprised when the round eye of his electric revealed a rough
table, made of wooden planks, bearing dishes and remnants of food.He
called at once to the boys and they gathered about him.“Also,” Carl chuckled, “the three ghosts do not live entirely upon
spiritual food.See there,” he continued, “they’ve had some kind of a
stew, probably made out of game shot in the mountains.”

“And they’ve been making baking powder biscuit, too!” Carl added.“I don’t suppose it would be safe to sample that stew?” Jimmie asked
questioningly.“It looks good enough to eat!”

“Not for me!” declared Carl.While the boys were examining the table and passing comment on the
articles it held, Sam moved softly to the doorway by which they had
entered and looked out into the corridor.Looking from the interior out
to the moonlit lake beyond, the place lost somewhat of the dreary
appearance it had shown when viewed under the searchlights.The walls
were of white marble, as was the floor, and great slashes in the slabs
showed that at one time they had been profusely ornamented with designs
in metal, probably in gold and silver.The moonlight, filtering through the broken roof, disclosed a depression
in the floor in a back corner.This, Sam reasoned, had undoubtedly held
the waters of the fountain hundreds of years before.Directly across
from the doorway in which he stood he saw another break in the wall.On a previous visit this opening, which had once been a doorway, had
been entirely unobstructed.Now a wall of granite blocks lay in the
interior of the apartment, just inside the opening.It seemed to the
young man from where he stood that there might still be means of
entrance by passing between this newly-built wall and the inner surface
of the chamber.Thinking that he would investigate the matter more fully in the future,
Sam turned back to where the boys were standing, still commenting on the
prepared food lying on the table.As he turned back a low, heavy grumble
agitated the air of the apartment.The boys turned quickly, and the three stood not far from the opening in
listening attitudes.The sound increased in volume as the moments
passed.At first it seemed like the heavy vibrations of throat cords,
either human or animal.Then it lifted into something like a shrill
appeal, which resembled nothing so much as the scream of a woman in
deadly peril.Involuntarily the boys stepped closer to the corridor.“What do you make of it?” whispered Jimmie.“Ghosts!” chuckled Carl.“Some day,” Jimmie suggested, in a graver tone than usual, “you’ll be
punished for your verbal treatment of ghosts!I don’t believe there’s
anything on the face of the earth you won’t make fun of.How do we know
that spirits don’t come back to earth?”

“They may, for all I know,” replied Carl.“I’m not trying to decide the
question, or to make light of it, either, but when I see the lot of
cheap imitations like we’ve been put against to-night, I just have to
express my opinion.”

“They’re cheap imitations, all right!” decided Jimmie.“Cheap?” repeated Carl.“Flowing robes, and disappearing figures, and
mysterious lights, and weird sounds!Why, a fellow couldn’t work off
such manifestations as we’ve seen to-night on the most superstitious
residents of the lower West Side in the City of New York, and they’ll
stand for almost anything!”

“It strikes me,” Sam, who had been listening to the conversation with an
amused smile, declared, “that the sounds we are listening to now may
hardly be classified as wailing!”

“Now, listen,” Carl suggested, “and we’ll see if we can analyze it.”

At that moment the sound ceased.The place seemed more silent than before because of the sudden
cessation.“It doesn’t want to be analyzed!” chuckled Carl.“Come on,” Jimmie urged, “let’s go and see what made it!”

“I think you’ll have to find out where it came from first!” said Carl.“It came from the opening across the second apartment,” explained Sam.“I had little difficulty in locating it.”

“That doesn’t look to me like much of an opening,” argued Carl.“The stones you see,” explained Sam, “are not laid in the entrance from
side to side.They are built up back of the entrance, and my idea is
that there must be a passage-way between them and the interior walls of
the room.That wall, by the way, has been constructed since my previous
visit.So you see,” he added, turning to Carl, “the ghosts in this neck
of the woods build walls as well as make baking powder biscuits.”

“Well, that’s a funny place to build a wall!” Carl asserted.“Perhaps the builders don’t like the idea of their red and blue lights
and ghostly apparatus being exposed to the gaze of the vulgar public,”
suggested Jimmie.“That room is probably the apartment behind the scenes
where the thunder comes from, and where some poor fellow of a supe is
set to holding up the moon!”

“Well, why don’t we go and find out about it?” urged Carl.“Wait until I take a look on the outside,” Sam requested.“The man in
the long white robe may be rising out of the lake by this time.I don’t
know,” he continued, “but that we have done a foolish thing in remaining
here as we have, leaving the aeroplane unguarded.”

“Perhaps I’d better run around the cliff and see if it’s all right!”
suggested Carl.“I’ll be back in a minute.”

“No,” Sam argued, “you two remain here at the main entrance and I’ll go
and see about the machine.Perhaps,” he warned, “you’d better remain
right here, and not attempt to investigate that closed apartment until I
return.I shan’t be gone very long.”

“Oh, of course,” replied Jimmie, “we’ll be good little boys and stand
right here and wait for you to come back—not!”

Carl chuckled as the two watched the young man disappear around the
angle of the cliff.“Before he gets back,” the boy said, “we’ll know all about that room,
won’t we?Say,” he went on in a moment, “I think this haunted temple
business is about the biggest fraud that was ever staged.If people only
knew enough to spot an impostor when they saw one, there wouldn’t be
prisons enough in the world to hold the rascals.”

“You tell that to Sam to-night,” laughed Jimmie.“He likes these
moralizing stunts.Are you going in right now?”

By way of reply Carl stepped into the arch between the two walls and
turned to the right into a passage barely more than a foot in width.Jimmie followed his example, but turned to the left.There the way was
blocked by a granite boulder which reached from the floor to the roof
itself.“Nothing doing here!” he called back to Carl.“I’ve found the way!” the latter answered.We’ll be
behind the scenes in about a minute.”

The passage was not more than a couple of yards in length and gave on an
open chamber which seemed, under the light of the electrics, to be
somewhat larger than the one where the conveniences of living had been
found.The faint illumination produced by the flashlights, of course
revealed only a small portion of it at a time.While the boys stood at the end of the narrow passage, studying the
interior as best they might under the circumstances, a sound which came
like the fall of a heavy footstep in the corridor outside reached their
ears.“There’s Sam!” Carl exclaimed.“We’ll leave him at the entrance and go
in.There’s a strange smell here, eh?”

“Smells like a wild animal show!” declared Jimmie.Other footsteps were now heard in the corridor, and Jimmie turned back
to speak with Sam.“That’s Sam all right enough!” the latter exclaimed.“Don’t go away
right now, anyhow.”

“What’s doing?” asked Jimmie.“There’s a light back there!” was the reply, “and some one is moving
around.Can’t you hear the footsteps on the hard stone floor?”

“Mighty soft footsteps!” suggested Jimmie.“Well, I’m going to know exactly what they are!” declared Carl.“Well, why don’t you go on, then?” demanded Jimmie.The two boys stepped forward, walking in the shaft of light proceeding
from their electrics.Once entirely clear of the passage, they kept
straight ahead along the wall and turned the lights toward the center of
the apartment, which seemed darker and drearier than the one recently
visited.Besides the smell of mold and a confined atmosphere there was an odor
which dimly brought back to the minds of the boys previous visits to the
homes of captive animals at the Central Park zoo.“Here!” cried Jimmie directly, “there’s a door just closed behind us!”




                              CHAPTER XIV.When Sam Weller turned the corner of the cliff and looked out at the
spot where the _Ann_ had been left, his first impression was that the
machine had been removed from the valley.He stood for a moment in uncertainty and then, regretting sincerely that
he had remained so long away, cautiously moved along, keeping as close
as possible to the wall of the cliff.In a moment he saw the planes of
the _Ann_ glistening in the moonlight at least a hundred yards from the
place where she had been left.Realizing the presence of hostile interests, he walked on toward the
planes, hoping to be able to get within striking distance before being
discovered.There was no one in sight in the immediate vicinity of the
_Ann_, and yet she was certainly moving slowly over the ground.The inference the young man drew from this was that persons unfamiliar
with flying machines had invaded the valley during his absence.Not
being able to get the machine into the air, they were, apparently, so
far as he could see, rolling it away on its rubber-tired wheels.The
progress was not rapid, but was directed toward a thicket which lay at
the west end of the valley.“That means,” the young man mused, “that they’re trying to steal the
machine!It is evident,” he went on, “that they are apprehensive of
discovery, for they manage to keep themselves out of sight.”

Realizing that it would be impossible for him to pass through the open
moonlight without being observed by those responsible for the erratic
motions of the _Ann_, the young man remained standing perfectly still in
a deep shadow against the face of the cliff.The _Ann_ moved on toward the thicket, and presently reached the shelter
of trees growing there.In a moment she was entirely hidden from view.“Now,” thought Sam, “the people who have been kind enough to change the
position of the machine will doubtless show themselves in the
moonlight.”

In this supposition he was not mistaken, for in a moment two men dressed
in European garments emerged from the shadows of the grove and took
their way across the valley, walking through the moonlight boldly and
with no pretense of concealment.Sam scrutinized the fellows carefully, but could not remember that he
had ever seen either of them before.They were dusky, supple chaps,
evidently of Spanish descent.As they walked they talked together in
English, and occasionally pointed to the angle of the cliff around which
the young man had recently passed.A chattering of excited voices at the edge of the grove now called Sam’s
attention in that direction, and he saw at least half a dozen figures,
apparently those of native Indians, squatting on the ground at the very
edge of the thicket.“And now,” mused Sam, as the men stopped not far away and entered into
what seemed to him to be an excited argument, “I’d like to know how
these people learned of the revival of the hunt for Redfern!It isn’t so
very many days since Havens’ expedition was planned in New York, and
this valley is a good many hundred miles away from that merry old town.”

Entirely at a loss to account for the manner in which information of
this new phase of the search had reached a point in the wilds of Peru
almost as soon as the record-breaking aeroplane could have carried the
news, the young man gave up the problem for the time being and devoted
his entire attention to the two men in European dress.“I tell you they are in the temple,” one of the men said speaking in a
corrupt dialect of the English language which it is useless to attempt
to reproduce.“They are in the temple at this minute!”

“Don’t be too sure of that, Felix!” the other said.“And what is more,” the man who had been called Felix went on, “they
will never leave the temple alive!”

“And so fails the great expedition!” chuckled the second speaker.“When we are certain that what must be has actually taken place,” Felix
went on, “I’ll hide the flying machine in a safer place, pay you as
agreed, and make my way back to Quito.Does that satisfy you?”

“I shall be satisfied when I have the feeling of the gold of the
Gringoes!” was the reply.Sam caught his breath sharply as he listened to the conversation.“There was some trap in the temple, then,” he mused, “designed to get us
out of the way.I should have known that,” he went on, bitterly, “and
should never have left the boys alone there!”

The two men advanced nearer to the angle of the cliff and seemed to be
waiting the approach of some one from the other side.“And Miguel?” asked Felix.“Why is he not here?”

“Can you trust him?” he added, in a moment.“With my own life!”

“The Gringoes are clever!” warned Felix.“But see!” exclaimed the other.There surely can be no mistake.”

The men lapsed into silence and stood listening.Sam began to hope that
their plans had indeed gone wrong.For a moment he was uncertain as to what he ought to do.He believed
that in the absence of the two leaders he might be able to get the _Ann_
into the air and so bring assistance to the boys.And yet, he could not
put aside the impression that immediate assistance was the only sort
which could ever be of any benefit to the two lads!“If they are in some trap in the temple,” he soliloquized, “the thing to
do is to get to them as soon as possible, even if we do lose the
machine, which, after all, is not certain.”

“The flying machine,” the man who had been called Felix was now heard to
say, “is of great value.It would bring a fortune in London.”

“But how are you to get it out of this district just at this time?”
asked the other.“How to get it out without discovery?”

“Fly it out!”

“Can you fly it out?” asked the other in a sarcastic tone.“There are plenty who can!” replied Felix, somewhat angrily.“But it is
not to be taken out at present,” he went on.“To lift it in the air now
would be to notify every Gringo from Quito to Lima that the prize
machine of the New York Millionaire, having been stolen, is in this part
of the country.”

“That is very true,” replied the other.“Hence, I have hidden it,” Felix went on.Are they safe?” was the next question.“As safe as such people usually are!” was the answer.As Sam Weller listened, his mind was busily considering one expedient
after another, plan after plan, which presented the least particle of
hope for the release of the boys.From the conversation he had overheard
he understood that the machine would not be removed for a number of
days—until, in fact, the hue and cry over its loss had died out.This, at least, lightened the difficulties to some extent.He could
devote his entire attention to the situation at the temple without
thought of the valuable aeroplane, but how to get to the temple with
those two ruffians in the way!Only for the savage associates in the
background, it is probable that he would have opened fire on the two
schemers.That was a sufficient reason, to
his mind, to bring about decisive action on his part.However, the
savages were there, just at the edge of the forest, and an attack on the
two leaders would undoubtedly bring them into action.Of course it was
not advisable for him to undertake a contest involving life and death
with such odds against him.The two men were still standing at the angle of the cliff.Only for the brilliant moonlight, Sam believed that he might elude their
vigilance and so make his way to the temple.But there was not a cloud
in the sky, and the illumination seemed to grow stronger every moment as
the moon passed over to the west.At last the very thing the young man had hoped for in vain took place.A
jumble of excited voices came from the thicket, and the men who were
watching turned instantly in that direction.As they looked, the sound
of blows and cries of pain came from the jungle.“Those brutes will be eating each other alive next!” exclaimed Felix.“That is so!” answered the other.“I warned you!”

“Suppose you go back and see what’s wrong?” suggested Felix.“I have no influence over the savages,” was the reply, “and besides, the
temple must be watched.”

With an exclamation of anger Felix started away in the direction of the
forest.It was evident that he had his work cut out for him there, for
the savages were fighting desperately, and his approach did not appear
to terminate the engagement.The man left at the angle of the cliff to watch and wait for news from
the temple moved farther around the bend and stood leaning against the
cliff, listening.The rattling of a
pebble betrayed the young man’s presence, and his hands upon the throat
of the other alone prevented an outcry which would have brought Felix,
and perhaps several of the savages, to the scene.It was a desperate, wordless, almost noiseless, struggle that ensued.The young man’s muscles, thanks to months of mountain exercise and
freedom from stimulants and narcotics, were hard as iron, while those of
his opponent seemed flabby and out of condition, doubtless because of
too soft living in the immediate past.The contest, therefore, was not of long duration.Realizing that he was
about to lapse into unconsciousness, Sam’s opponent threw out his hands
in token of surrender.The young man deftly searched the fellow’s person
for weapons and then drew him to his feet.“Now,” he said, presenting his automatic to the fellow’s breast, “if you
utter a word or signal calculated to bring you help, that help will come
too late, even if it is only one instant away.At the first sound or
indication of resistance, I’ll put half a clip of bullets through your
heart!”

“You have the victory!” exclaimed the other sullenly.“Move along toward the temple!” demanded Sam.“It is not for me to go there!” was the reply.“And I’ll walk along behind you,” Sam went on, “and see that you have a
ballast of bullets if any treachery is attempted.”

“It is forbidden me to go to the temple to-night,” the other answered,
“but, under the circumstances, I go!”

Fearful that Felix might return at any moment, or that the savages,
enraged beyond control, might break away in the direction of the temple,
Sam pushed the fellow along as rapidly as possible, and the two soon
came to the great entrance of that which, centuries before, had been a
sacred edifice.The fellow shuddered as he stepped into the musty
interior.“It is not for me to enter!” he said.“And now,” Sam began, motioning his captive toward the chamber where the
bunks and provisions had been discovered, “tell me about this trap which
was set to-night for my chums.”

“I know nothing!” was the answer.“That is false,” replied Sam.“I overheard the conversation you had with
Felix before the outbreak of the savages.”

“I know nothing!” insisted the other.“Now, let me tell you this,” Sam said, flashing his automatic back and
forth under the shaft of light which now fell almost directly upon the
two, “my friends may be in deadly peril at this time.It may be that one
instant’s hesitation on your part will bring them to death.”

The fellow shrugged his shoulders impudently and threw out his hands.Sam saw that he was watching the great entrance carefully, and became
suspicious that some indication of the approach of Felix had been
observed.“I have no time to waste in arguments,” Sam went on excitedly.“The trap
you have set for my friends may be taking their lives at this moment.I
will give you thirty seconds in which to reveal to me their whereabouts,
and to inform me as to the correct course to take in order to protect
them.”

The fellow started back and fixed his eyes again on the entrance, and
Sam, following his example, saw something which sent the blood rushing
to his heart.Outlined on the white stone was the shadow of a human being!Although not in sight, either an enemy or a friend was at hand!“Door?” repeated Carl, in reply to his chum’s exclamation.“There’s no
door here!”

“But there is!” insisted Jimmie.“I heard the rattle of iron against
granite only a moment ago!”

As the boy spoke he turned his flashlight back to the narrow passage and
then, catching his chum by the arm, pointed with a hand which was not
altogether steady to an iron grating which had swung or dropped from
some point unknown into a position which effectually barred their return
to the outer air!The bars of the gate, for it was little else, were not
brown and rusty but bright and apparently new.“That’s a new feature of the establishment,” Jimmie asserted.“That gate
hasn’t been long exposed to this damp air!”

“I don’t care how long it hasn’t been here!” Carl said, rather crossly.“What I want to know is how long is it going to remain there?”

“I hope it will let us out before dinner time,” suggested Jimmie.“Away, you and your appetite!” exclaimed Carl.“I suppose you think this
is some sort of a joke.You make me tired!”

“And the fact that we couldn’t get out if we wanted to,” Jimmie grinned,
“makes me hungry!”

“Cut it out!” cried Carl.“The thing for us to do now is to find some
way of getting by that man-made obstruction.”

“Man-made is all right!” agreed Jimmie.“It is perfectly clear, now,
isn’t it, that the supernatural had nothing to do with the
demonstrations we have seen here!”

“I thought you understood that before!” cried Carl, impatiently.Jimmie, who stood nearest to the gate, now laid a hand upon one of the
upright bars and brought his whole strength to bear.The obstruction
rattled slightly but remained firm.“Can’t move it!” the boy said.“We may have to tear the wall down!”

“And the man who swung the gate into position?” questioned Carl.“What
do you think he’ll be doing while we’re pulling down that heap of
stones?You’ve got to think of something better than that, my son!”

“Anyway,” Jimmie said, hopefully, “Sam is on the outside, and he’ll soon
find out that we’ve been caught in a trap.”

“I don’t want to pose as a prophet of evil, or anything like that,” Carl
went on, “but it’s just possible that he may have been caught in a trap,
too.Anyway, it’s up to us to go ahead and get out, if we can, without
any reference to assistance from the outside.”

“Go ahead, then!” Jimmie exclaimed.“I’m in with anything you propose!”

The boys now exerted their united strength on the bars of the gate, but
all to no purpose.So far as they could determine, the iron contrivance
had been dropped down from above into grooves in the stone-work on
either side.The bars were an inch or more in thickness, and firmly
enclosed in parallel beams of small size which crossed them at regular
intervals.Seeing the condition of affairs, Jimmie suggested:

“Perhaps we can push it up!”

“Anything is worth trying!” replied Carl.But the gate was too firmly in place to be moved, even a fraction of an
inch, by their joint efforts.“Now, see here,” Jimmie said, after a short and almost painful silence,
“there’s no knowing how long we may be held in this confounded old
dungeon.We’ll need light as long as we’re here, so I suggest that we
use only one flashlight at a time.”

“That will help some!” answered Carl, extinguishing his electric.Jimmie threw his light along the walls of the chamber and over the
floor.There appeared to be no break of any kind in the white marble
which shut in the apartment, except at one point in a distant corner,
where a slab had been removed.“Perhaps,” suggested Carl, “the hole in the corner is exactly the thing
we’re looking for.”

“It strikes me,” said Jimmie, “that one of us saw a light in that corner
not long ago.I don’t remember whether you called my attention to it, or
whether I saw it first, but I remember that we talked about a light in
the apartment as we looked in.”

“Perhaps we’d better watch the hole a few minutes before moving over to
it,” suggested Carl.“The place it leads to may hold a group of savages,
or a couple of renegades, sent on here to make trouble for casual
visitors.”

“Casual visitors!” repeated Jimmie.“That doesn’t go with me!You know,
and I know, that this stage was set for our personal benefit!How the
Redfern bunch got the men in here so quickly, or how they got the
information into this topsy-turvy old country, is another question.”

“I presume you are right,” Carl agreed.“In some particulars,” the boy
went on, “this seems to me to be a situation somewhat similar to our
experiences in the California mountains.”

“Right you are!” cried Jimmie.The circle of light from the electric illuminated the corner where the
break in the wall had been observed only faintly.Determined to discover
everything possible regarding what might be an exit from the apartment,
Jimmie kept his light fixed steadily on that corner.In a couple of minutes Carl caught the boy by the arm and pointed along
the finger of light.“Hold it steadier now,” he said.“I saw a movement there just now.”

“What kind of a movement?” asked the other.“Looked like a ball of fire.”

“It may be the cat!” suggested Jimmie.“Quit your foolishness!” advised Carl impatiently.“This is a serious
situation, and there’s no time for any grandstanding!”

“A ball of fire!” repeated Jimmie scornfully.“What would a ball of fire
be doing there?”

“What would a blue ball of fire be doing on the roof?” asked Carl,
reprovingly.“Yet we saw one there, didn’t we?”

Although Jimmie was inclined to treat the situation as lightly as
possible, he knew very well that the peril was considerable.Like a good
many other boys in a trying situation, he was usually inclined to keep
his unpleasant mental processes to himself.He now engaged in what
seemed to Carl to be trivial conversation, yet the desperate situation
was no less firmly impressed upon his mind.The boys waited for some moments before speaking again, listening and
watching for the reappearance of the object which had attracted their
attention.“There!” Carl cried in a moment.“Move your light a little to the left.I’m sure I saw a flash of color pass the opening.”

“I saw that too!” Jimmie agreed.“Now what do you think it can be?”

In a moment there was no longer doubt regarding the presence at the
opening which was being watched so closely.The deep vocal vibrations
which had been noticed from the other chamber seemed to shake the very
wall against which the boy stood.As before, it was followed in a moment
by the piercing, lifting cry which on the first occasion had suggested
the appeal of a woman in agony or terror.The boys stood motionless, grasping each other by the hand, and so each
seeking the sympathy and support of the other, until the weird sound
died out.“And that,” said Jimmie in a moment, “is no ghost!”

“Ghost?” repeated Carl scornfully.“You may as well talk about a ghost
making that gate and setting it against us!”

“Anyway,” Jimmie replied, “the wail left an odor of sulphur in the air!”

“Yes,” answered Carl, “and the sulphur you speak of is a sulphur which
comes from the dens of wild beasts!Now do you know what we’re up
against?”

“Mountain lions!” exclaimed Jimmie.“Jaguars!” answered Carl.“I hope they’re locked in!” suggested Jimmie.“Can you see anything that looks like a grate before that opening?”
asked Carl.“I’m sure I can’t.”

“Nothing doing in that direction!” was the reply.At regular intervals, now, a great, lithe, crouching body could be seen
moving back and forth at the opening, and now and then a cat-like head
was pushed into the room!At such times the eyes of the animal, whatever
it was, shone like balls of red fire in the reflection of the electric
light.Although naturally resourceful and courageous, the two boys
actually abandoned hope of ever getting out of the place alive!“I wonder how many wild animals there are in there?” asked Carl in a
moment.“It seems to me that I have seen two separate figures.”

“There may be a dozen for all we know,” Jimmie returned.“Gee!” he
exclaimed, reverting to his habit of concealing serious thoughts by
lightly spoken words, “Daniel in the lion’s den had nothing on us!”

“How many shots have you in your automatic?” asked Carl, drawing his own
from his pocket.“We’ll have to do some shooting, probably.”

“Why, I have a full clip of cartridges,” Jimmie answered.“But have you?” insisted Carl.“Why, surely, I have!” returned Jimmie.“Don’t you remember we filled
our guns night before last and never——”

“I thought so!” exclaimed Carl, ruefully.“We put in fresh clips night
before last, and exploded eight or nine cartridges apiece on the return
trip to Quito.Now, how many bullets do you think you have available?One or two?”

“I don’t know!” replied Jimmie, and there was almost a sob in his voice
as he spoke.“I presume I have only one.”

“Perhaps the electric light may keep the brutes away,” said Carl
hopefully.“You know wild animals are afraid of fire.”

“Yes, it may,” replied Jimmie, “but it strikes me that our little
torches will soon become insufficient protectors.Those are jaguars out
there, I suppose you know.And they creep up to camp-fires and steal
savage children almost out of their mothers’ arms!”

“Where do you suppose Sam is by this time?” asked Carl, in a moment, as
the cat-like head appeared for the fourth or fifth time at the opening.“I’m afraid Sam couldn’t get in here in time to do us any good even if
he stood in the corridor outside!” was the reply.“Whatever is done,
we’ve got to do ourselves.”

“And that brings us down to a case of shooting!” Carl declared.“It’s only a question of time,” Jimmie went on, “when the jaguars will
become hungry enough to attack us.When they get into the opening, full
under the light of the electric, we’ll shoot.”

“I’ll hold the light,” Carl argued, “and you do the shooting.You’re a
better marksman than I am, you know!When your last cartridge is gone,
I’ll hand you my gun and you can empty that.If there’s only two animals
and you are lucky with your aim, we may escape with our lives so far as
this one danger is concerned.How we are to make our escape after that
is another matter.”

“If there are more than two jaguars,” Jimmie answered, “or if I’m
unlucky enough to injure one without inflicting a fatal wound, it will
be good-bye to the good old flying machines.”

“That’s about the size of it!” Carl agreed.All this conversation had occurred, of course, at intervals, whenever
the boys found the heart to put their hopes and plans into words.It
seemed to them that they had already spent hours in the desperate
situation in which they found themselves.The periods of silence,
however, had been briefer than they thought, and the time between the
departure of Sam and that moment was not much more than half an hour.“There are two heads now!” Jimmie said, after a time, “and they’re
coming out!Hold your light steady when they reach the center of the
room.I can’t afford to miss my aim.”

“Is your arm steady?” almost whispered Carl.“Never better!” answered Jimmie.Four powerful, hungry, jaguars, instead of two, crept out of the
opening!Jimmie tried to cheer his companion with the whispered hope
that there might possibly be bullets enough for them all, and raised his
weapon.Two shots came in quick succession, and two jaguars crumpled
down on the floor.Nothing daunted, the other brutes came on, and Jimmie
seized Carl’s automatic.The only question now was this:

How many bullets did the gun hold?BESIEGED IN THE TEMPLE.As Sam watched the shadow cast by the moonlight on the marble slab at
the entrance, his prisoner turned sharply about and lifted a hand as if
to shield himself from attack.“A savage!” he exclaimed in a terrified whisper.It seemed to Sam Weller at that moment that no word had ever sounded
more musically in his ears.The expression told him that a third element
had entered into the situation.He believed from recent experiences that
the savages who had been seen at the edge of the forest were not exactly
friendly to the two white men.Whether or not they would come to his
assistance was an open question, but at least there was a chance of
their creating a diversion in his favor.“How do you know the shadow is that of a savage?” asked Sam.The prisoner pointed to the wide doorway and crowded back behind his
captor.There, plainly revealed in the moonlight, were the figures of
two brawny native Indians!Felix was approaching the entrance with a
confident step, and the two watchers saw him stop for an instant and
address a few words to one of the Indians.The next moment the smile on
the fellow’s face shifted to a set expression of terror.Before he could utter another word, he received a blow on the head which
stretched him senseless on the smooth marble.Then a succession of
threatening cries came from the angle of the cliff, and half a dozen
Indians swarmed up to where the unconscious man lay!The prisoner now crouched behind his captor, his body trembling with
fear, his lips uttering almost incoherent appeals for protection.The savages glanced curiously into the temple for a moment and drew
their spears and bludgeons.He
heard blows and low hisses of enmity, but there came no outcry.When he looked again the moonlight showed a dark splotch on the white
marble, and that alone!“Mother of Mercy!” shouted the prisoner in a faltering tone.“Where did they take him?” asked Sam.The prisoner shuddered and made no reply.The mute answer, however, was
sufficient.The young man understood that Felix had been murdered by the
savages within sound of his voice.“Why?” he asked the trembling prisoner.“Because,” was the hesitating answer, “they believe that only evil
spirits come out of the sky in the night-time.”

Sam remembered of his own arrival and that of his friends, and
congratulated himself and them that the savages had not been present to
witness the event.“And they think he came in the machine?” asked Sam.The prisoner shuddered and covered his face with his hands.“And now,” demanded Sam, “in order to save your own life, will you tell
me what I want to know?”

The old sullen look returned to the eyes of the captive.Perhaps he was
thinking of the great reward he might yet receive from his distant
employers if he could escape and satisfy them that the boys had perished
in the trap set for them.At any rate he refused to answer at that time.In fact his hesitation was a brief one, for while Sam waited, a finger
upon the trigger of his automatic, two shots came from the direction of
the chamber across the corridor, and the acrid smell of gunpowder came
to his nostrils.It was undoubtedly his belief
at that time that all his hopes of making a favorable report to his
employers had vanished.The shots, he understood, indicated resistance;
perhaps successful resistance.“Yes,” he said hurriedly, his knees almost giving way under the weight
of his shaking body.“Yes, I’ll tell you where your friends are.”

He hesitated and pointed toward the opposite entrance.“In there!” he cried.“Felix caused them to be thrown to the beasts!”

The young man seized the prisoner fiercely by the throat.“Show me the way!” he demanded.The captive still pointed to the masked entrance across the corridor and
Sam drew him along, almost by main force.When they came to the narrow
passage at the eastern end of which the barred gate stood, they saw a
finger of light directed into the interior of the apartment.While they looked, Sam scarcely knowing what course to pursue, two more
shots sounded from within, and the odor of burned powder became almost
unbearable.Sam threw himself against the iron gate and shouted out:

“Jimmie!Carl!”

“Here!” cried a voice out of the smoke.“Come to the gate with your gun.I missed the last shot, and Carl is down!”

Still pushing the prisoner ahead of him, Sam crowded through the narrow
passage and stood looking over the fellow’s shoulder into the
smoke-scented room beyond.His electric light showed Jimmie standing
with his back against the gate, his feet pushed out to protect the
figure of Carl, lying on the floor against the bars.The searchlight in
the boy’s hand was waving rhythmically in the direction of a pair of
gleaming eyes which looked out of the darkness.“My gun is empty!” Jimmie almost whispered.“I’ll hold the light
straight in his eyes, and you shoot through the bars.”

Sam forced the captive down on the corridor, where he would be out of
the way and still secure from escape, and fired two shots at the
blood-mad eyes inside.The great beast fell to the floor instantly and
lay still for a small fraction of a second then leaped to his feet
again.With jaws wide open and fangs showing threateningly, he sprang toward
Jimmie, but another shot from Sam’s automatic finished the work the
others had begun.Jimmie sank to the floor like one bereft of strength.“Get us out!” he said in a weak voice.“Open the door and get us out!One of the jaguars caught hold of Carl, and I thought I heard the
crunching of bones.The boy may be dead for all I know.”

Sam applied his great strength to the barred gate, but it only shook
mockingly under his straining hands.Then he turned his face downward to
where his prisoner lay cowering upon the floor.“Can you open this gate?” he asked.Once more the fellow’s face became stubborn.“Felix had the key!” he exclaimed.“All right!” cried Sam.“We’ll send you out to Felix to get it!”

He seized the captive by the collar as he spoke and dragged him, not too
gently, through the narrow passage and out into the main corridor.Once
there he continued to force him toward the entrance.The moon was now
low in the west and shadows here and there specked the little plaza in
front of the temple.In addition to the moonlight there was a tint of
gray in the sky which told of approaching day.The prisoner faced the weird scene with an expression of absolute
terror.He almost fought his way back into the temple.“Your choice!” exclaimed Sam.“The key to the gate or you return to the
savages!”

The fellow dropped to his knees and clung to his captor.“I have the key to the gate!” he declared.“But I am not permitted to
surrender it.You must take it from me.”

“You’re loyal to some one, anyhow!” exclaimed Sam, beginning a search of
the fellow’s pockets.At last the key was found, and Sam hurried away with it.He knew then
that there would be no further necessity for guarding the prisoner at
that time.The fact that the hostile savages were abroad and that he was
without weapons would preclude any attempt at escape.At first the young man found it difficult to locate the lock to which
the key belonged.At last he found it, however, and in a moment Jimmie
crept out of the chamber, trying his best to carry Carl in his arms.Are you hurt yourself?” he
added as Jimmie leaned against the wall.“I think,” Jimmie answered, “one of the brutes gave me a nip in the leg,
but I can walk all right.”

Sam carried Carl to the center of the corridor and laid him down on the
marble floor.A quick examination showed rather a bad wound on the left
shoulder from which considerable blood must have escaped.“He’ll be all right as soon as he regains his strength!” the young man
cried.“And now, Jimmie,” he went on, “let’s see about your wound.”

“It’s only a scratch,” the boy replied, “but it bled like fury, and I
think that’s what makes me so weak.Did we get all the jaguars?” he
added, with a wan smile.“I don’t seem to remember much about the last
two or three minutes.”

“Every last one of them!” answered Sam cheerfully.While Sam was binding Carl’s wound the boy opened his eyes and looked
about the apartment whimsically.“We seem to be alive yet,” he said, rolling his eyes so as to include
Jimmie in his line of vision.“I guess Jimmie was right when he said
that Daniel in the lions’ den was nothing to this.”

“But when they took Daniel out of the lions’ den,” cut in Jimmie, “they
brought him to a place where there was something doing in the way of
sustenance!What about that?”

“Cut it out!” replied Carl feebly.“But, honestly,” Jimmie exclaimed, “I never was so hungry in my life!”

The captive looked at the two boys with amazement mixed with admiration
in his eyes.“And they’re just out of the jaws of death!” he exclaimed.“Is that the greaser that put us into the den of lions?” asked Carl,
pointing to the prisoner.“No, no!” shouted the trembling man.Felix
laid the plans for your murder.”

“The keeper of what?” asked Sam.“Of the wild animals!” was the reply.“I catch them here for the
American shows.And now they are killed!” he complained.“So that contraption, the masked entrance, the iron gate, and all that,
was arranged to hold wild animals in captivity until they could be
transferred to the coast?” asked Sam.“Exactly!” answered the prisoner.“The natives helped me catch the
jaguars and I kept them for a large payment.Then, yesterday, a runner
told me that a strange white man sought my presence in the forest at the
top of the valley.I met him there, and he arranged with
me for the use of the wild-animal cage for only one night.”

“And you knew the use to which he intended to put it?” asked Sam
angrily.“You knew that he meant murder?”

“I did not!” was the reply.“He told Miguel what to do if any of you
entered and did not tell me.I was not to enter the temple to-night!”

“And where’s Miguel?” demanded the young man.The captive pointed to the broken roof of the temple.“Miguel remained here,” he said, “to let down the gate to the passage
and lift the grate which kept the jaguars in their den.”

“Do you think he’s up there now?” asked Jimmie.“I’d like to see this
person called Miguel.I have a few words to say to him.”

“No, indeed!” answered the prisoner.He probably
took to his heels when the shots were fired.”

The prisoner, who gave his name as Pedro, insisted that he knew nothing
whatever of the purpose of the man who secured his assistance in the
desperate game which had just been played.He declared that Felix seemed
to understand perfectly that Gringoes would soon arrive in flying
machines.He said that the machines were to be wrecked, and the
occupants turned loose in the mountains.It was Pedro’s idea that two, and perhaps three, flying machines were
expected.He said that Felix had no definite idea as to when they would
arrive.He only knew that he had been stationed there to do what he
could to intercept the progress of those on the machines.He said that
the machines had been seen from a distance, and that Felix and himself
had watched the descent into the valley from a secure position in the
forest.They had remained in the forest until the Gringoes had left for
the temple, and had then set about examining the machine.While examining the machine the savages had approached and had naturally
received the impression that Felix was the Gringo who had descended in
the aeroplane.He knew some of the Indians, he said.The Indians, he said, were very superstitious, and believed that flying
machines brought death and disaster to any country they visited.By
making them trifling presents he, himself, had succeeded in keeping on
good terms with them until the machine had descended and been hidden in
the forest.“But,” the prisoner added with a significant shrug of his shoulders,
“when we walked in the direction of the temple the Indians suspected
that Felix had come to visit the evil spirits they believed to dwell
there and so got beyond control.They would kill me now as they killed
him!”

“Do the Indians never attack the temple?” asked Sam.“Perhaps,” Pedro observed, with a sly smile, “you saw the figure in
flowing robes and the red and blue lights!”

“We certainly did!” answered Sam.“While the animals are being collected and held in captivity here,”
Pedro continued, “it is necessary to do such things in order to keep the
savages away.Miguel wears the flowing robes, and drops into the narrow
entrance to an old passage when he finds it necessary to disappear.The
Indians will never actually enter the temple, though they may besiege
it.”

“There goes your ghost story!” Carl interrupted.“Why,” he added, “it’s
about the most commonplace thing I ever heard of!The haunted temple is
just headquarters for the agents of an American menagerie!”

“And all this brings up the old questions,” Jimmie said.“How did the
Redfern bunch know that any one of our airships would show up here?How
did they secure the presence of an agent so far in the interior in so
short a time?I think I’ve asked these questions before!” he added,
grinning.“But I have no recollection of their ever having been answered,” said
Sam.“Say,” questioned Jimmie, with a wink at Carl, “how long is this seance
going to last without food?I’d like to know if we’re never going to
have another breakfast.”

“There’s something to eat in the provision boxes of the _Ann_,” Sam
replied hopefully.“Yes,” said Jimmie sorrowfully, “and there’s a bunch of angry savages
between us and the grub on board the _Ann_!If you look out the door,
you’ll see the brutes inviting us to come out and be cooked!”

The prisoner threw a startled glance outside and ran to the back of the
temple, declaring that the savages were besieging the temple, and that
it might be necessary for them to lock themselves in the chamber for
days with the slain jaguars!Jimmie rubbed his stomach and groaned!On the morning following the departure of Sam and the boys, Mr.Havens
was awakened by laughing voices in the corridor outside his door.His
first impression was that Sam and Jimmie had returned from their
midnight excursion in the _Ann_.He arose and, after dressing hastily,
opened the door, thinking that the adventures of the night must have
been very amusing indeed to leave such a hang-over of merriment for the
morning.When he saw Ben and Glenn standing in the hall he confessed to a feeling
of disappointment, but invited the lads inside without showing it.“You are out early,” he said as the boys, still laughing, dropped into
chairs.“What’s the occasion of the comedy?”

“We’ve been out to the field,” replied Ben, “and we’re laughing to think
how Carl bested Sam and Jimmie last night.”

“What about it?” asked the millionaire.“Why,” Ben continued, “it seems that Sam and Jimmie planned a moonlight
ride in the _Ann_ all by themselves.Carl got next to their scheme and
bounced into the seat with Jimmie just as the machine swung into the
air.I’ll bet Jimmie was good and provoked about that!”

“What time did the _Ann_ return?” asked Havens.“She hasn’t returned yet.”

The millionaire turned from the mirror in which he was completing the
details of his toilet and faced the boys with a startled look in his
eyes.“Are you sure the boys haven’t returned?” Mr.“Anyhow,” Glenn replied, “the _Ann_ hasn’t come back!”

“Did they tell you where they were going?” asked Ben.“They did not,” was the reply.“Sam said that he thought he might be
able to pick up valuable information and asked for the use of the _Ann_
and the company of Jimmie.That’s all he said to me concerning the
moonlight ride he proposed.”

In bringing his mind back to the conversation with Sam on the previous
night, Mr.Havens could not avoid a feeling of anxiety as he considered
the significant words of the young man and the information concerning
the sealed letter to be opened only in case of his death.He said
nothing of this to the boys, however, but continued the conversation as
if no apprehension dwelt in his mind regarding the safety of the lads.“If they only went out for a short ride by moonlight,” Glenn suggested,
in a moment, “they ought to have returned before daylight.”

“You can never tell what scrape that boy Jimmie will get into!” laughed
Ben.“He’s the hoodoo of the party and the mascot combined!He gets us
into all kinds of scrapes, but he usually makes good by getting us out
of the scrapes we get ourselves into.”

“Oh, they’ll be back directly,” the millionaire remarked, although deep
down in his consciousness was a growing belief that something serious
had happened to the lads.He, however, did his best to conceal the anxiety he felt from Ben and
his companion.Directly the three went down to breakfast together, and while the meal
was in progress a report came from the field where the machines had been
left that numerous telegrams addressed to Mr.“I left positive orders at the telegraph office,” he said, “to have all
my messages delivered here.Did one of the men out there receipt for
them?If so, perhaps one of you boys would better chase out and bring
them in,” he added turning to his companions at the table.The messenger replied that the messages had been receipted for, and that
he had offered to bring them in, but that the man in charge had refused
to turn them over to him.Havens replied, “Ben will go out to the field with you
and bring the messages in.And,” he added, as the messenger turned away,
“kindly notify me the instant the _Ann_ arrives.”

The messenger bowed and started away, accompanied by Ben.“I don’t understand about the telegrams having been sent to the field,”
Mr.Havens went on, as the two left the breakfast table and sauntered
into the lobby of the hotel.I also left instructions
with the clerk to send any messages to my room, no matter what time they
came.The instructions were very explicit.”

“Oh, you know how things get balled up in telegraph offices, and
messenger offices, and post-offices!” grinned Glenn.Mellen left the office early in the evening, and the man in charge got
lazy, or indifferent, or forgetful, and sent the messages to the wrong
place.”

While the two talked together, Mr.Mellen strolled into the hotel and
approached the corner of the lobby where they sat.“Good-morning!” he said taking a chair at their side.“Anything new
concerning the southern trip?”

“Not a thing!” replied Mr.“Sam went out in the _Ann_, for a
short run last night, and we’re only waiting for his return in order to
continue our journey.We expect to be away by noon.”

“I hope I shall hear from you often,” the manager said.“By the way,” the millionaire remarked, “what about the telegrams which
were sent out to the field last night?”

“No telegrams for you were sent out to the field last night!” was the
reply.“The telegrams directed to you are now at the hotel desk, unless
you have called for them.”

“But a messenger from the field reports that several telegrams for me
were received there.I don’t understand this at all.”

“They certainly did not come from our office!” was the reply.The millionaire arose hastily and approached the desk just as the clerk
was drawing a number of telegrams from his letter-box.“I left orders to have these taken to your room as soon as they
arrived,” the clerk explained, “but it seems that the night man chucked
them into your letter-box and forgot all about them.”

Mr.Havens took the telegrams into his hand and returned to the corner
of the lobby where he had been seated with Mellen and Glenn.“There seems to be a hoodoo in the air concerning my telegrams,” he said
with a smile, as he began opening the envelopes.“The messages which
came last night were not delivered to my room, but were left lying in my
letter-box until just now.In future, please instruct your messengers,”
he said to the manager, “to bring my telegrams directly to my room—that
is,” he added, “if I remain in town and any more telegrams are received
for me.”

“I’ll see that you get them directly they are received,” replied the
manager, impatiently.“If the hotel clerk objects to the boy going to
your room in the night-time, I’ll tell him to draw a gun on him!” he
added with a laugh.“Are the delayed telegrams important ones?”

“They are in code!” replied the millionaire.“I’m afraid I’ll have to go
to my room and get the code sheet.”

Mr.Havens disappeared up the elevator, and Mellen and Glenn talked of
aviation, and canoeing, and base-ball, and the dozen and one things in
which men and boys are interested, for half an hour.Then the
millionaire appeared in the lobby beckoning them toward the elevator.Mellen observed that the millionaire was greatly excited as he
motioned them into his suite of rooms and pointed to chairs.The
telegrams which he had received were lying open on a table near the
window and the code sheet and code translations were not far away.Before the millionaire could open the conversation Ben came bounding
into the room without knocking.His face was flushed with running, and
his breath came in short gasps.As he turned to close the door he shook
a clenched fist threateningly in the direction of the elevator.“That fool operator,” he declared, “left me standing in the corridor
below while he took one of the maids up to the ’steenth floor, and I ran
all the way up the stairs!I’ll get him good sometime!”

“Did you bring the telegrams?” asked the millionaire with a smile.“Say, look here!” Ben exclaimed dropping into a chair beside the table.“I’d like to know what’s coming off!”

Mr.Havens and his companions regarded the boy critically for a moment
and then the millionaire asked:

“What’s broke loose now?”

“Well,” Ben went on, “I went out to the field and the man there said
he’d get the telegrams in a minute.I stood around looking over the
_Louise_ and _Bertha_, and asking questions about what Sam said when he
went away on the _Ann_, until I got tired of waiting, then I chased up
to where this fellow stood and he said he’d go right off and get the
messages.”

“Why didn’t you hand him one?” laughed Glenn.“I wanted to,” Ben answered.“If I’d had him down in the old seventeenth
ward in the little old city of New York, I’d have set the bunch on him.Well, after a while, he poked away to the little shelter-tent the men
put up to sleep in last night and rustled around among the straw and
blankets and came back and said he couldn’t find the messages.”

The millionaire and the manager exchanged significant glances.“He told me,” Ben went on, “that the telegrams had been receipted for
and hidden under a blanket, to be delivered early in the morning.Said
he guessed some one must have stolen them, or mislaid them, but didn’t
seem to think the matter very important.”

The millionaire pointed to the open messages lying on the table.“How many telegrams came for me last night?” he asked.“Eight,” was the reply.“And there are eight here,” the millionaire went on.“And that means——”

“And that means,” the millionaire said, interrupting the manager, “that
the telegrams delivered on the field last night were either duplicates
of these cipher despatches or fake messages!”

“That’s just what I was going to remark,” said Mellen.“Has the _Ann_ returned?” asked Glenn of Ben.“Not yet,” was the reply.“Suppose we take one of the other machines and go up and look for her?”

“We’ll discuss that later on, boys,” the millionaire interrupted.“I would give a considerable to know,” the manager observed, in a
moment, “just who handled the messages which were left at the hotel
counter last night.And I’m going to do my best to find out!” he added.“That ought to be a perfectly simple matter,” suggested Mr.In Quito, no!” answered the manager.“A good many of
the natives who are in clerical positions here are crooked enough to
live in a corkscrew.They’ll do almost anything for money.”

“That’s the idea I had already formed of the people,” Ben cut in.“Besides,” the manager continued, “the chances are that the night clerk
tumbled down on a sofa somewhere in the lobby and slept most of the
night, leaving bell-boys and subordinates to run the hotel.”

“In that event,” Mr.Havens said, “the telegrams might have been handled
by half a dozen different people.”

“I’m afraid so!” replied the manager.“But the code!” suggested Ben.“They couldn’t read them!”

“But they might copy them for some one who could!” argued the manager.“And the copies might have been sent out to the field for the express
purpose of having them stolen,” he went on with an anxious look on his
face.“Are they very important?” he asked of the millionaire.“Very much so,” was the answer.“In fact, they are code copies of
private papers taken from deposit box A, showing the plans made in New
York for the South American aeroplane journey.”

“And showing stops and places to look through and all that?” asked Ben.“If that’s the kind of information the telegrams contained, I guess the
Redfern bunch in this vicinity are pretty well posted about this time!”

“I’m afraid so,” the millionaire replied gloomily.“Well,” he continued
in a moment, “we may as well get ready for our journey.I remember now,”
he said casually, “that Sam said last night that we ought to proceed on
our way without reference to him this morning.His idea then was that we
would come up with him somewhere between Quito and Lake Titicaca.So we
may as well be moving, and leave the investigation of the fraudulent or
copied telegrams to Mr.Mellen.”

“Funny thing for them to go chasing off in that way!” declared Ben.But no one guessed the future as the aeroplanes started southward!JIMMIE’S AWFUL HUNGER.“You say,” Sam asked, as Pedro crouched in the corner of the temple
where the old fountain basin had been, “that the Indians will never
actually attack the temple?”

“They never have,” replied Pedro, his teeth chattering in terror.“Since
I have been stationed here to feed and care for the wild animals in
captivity, I have known them to utter threats, but until to-night, so
far as I know, none of them ever placed a foot on the temple steps.”

“They did it to-night, all right!” Jimmie declared.“Felix could tell us about that if they had left enough of his frame to
utter a sound!” Carl put in.The boys were both weak from loss of blood, but their injuries were not
of a character to render them incapable of moving about.“What I’m afraid of,” Pedro went on, “is that they’ll surround the
temple and try to starve us into submission.”

“Jerusalem!” cried Jimmie.“That doesn’t sound good to me.I’m so hungry
now I could eat one of those jaguars raw!”

“But they are not fit to eat!” exclaimed Pedro.“They wanted to eat us, didn’t they?” demanded Jimmie.“I guess turn and
turn about is fair play!”

“Is there no secret way out of this place?” asked Sam, as the howls of
the savages became more imperative.There were rumors, he said, of secret
passages, but he had never been able to discover them.For his own part,
he did not believe they existed.“What sort of a hole is that den the jaguars came out of?” asked Jimmie.“It looks like it might extend a long way into the earth.”

“No,” answered Pedro, “it is only a subterranean room, used a thousand
years ago by the priests who performed at the broken altar you see
beyond the fountain.When the Gringoes came with their proposition to
hold wild animals here until they could be taken out to Caxamarca, and
thence down the railroad to the coast, they examined the walls of the
chamber closely, but found no opening by which the wild beasts might
escape.Therefore, I say, there is no passage leading from that
chamber.”

“From the looks of things,” Carl said, glancing out at the Indians, now
swarming by the score on the level plateau between the front of the
ruined temple and the lake, “we’ll have plenty of time to investigate
this old temple before we get out of it.”

“How are we going to investigate anything when we’re hungry?” demanded
Jimmie.“I can’t even think when I’m hungry.”

“Take away Jimmie’s appetite,” grinned Carl, “and there wouldn’t be
enough left of him to fill an ounce bottle!”

Pedro still sat in the basin of the old fountain, rocking his body back
and forth and wailing in a mixture of Spanish and English that he was
the most unfortunate man who ever drew the breath of life.“The animal industry,” he wailed, “is ruined.No more will the hunters
of wild beasts bring them to this place for safe keeping.No more will
the Indians assist in their capture.No more will the gold of the Gringo
kiss my palm.The ships came out of the sky and brought ruin.Right the
Indians are when they declare that the men who fly bring only disease
and disaster!” he continued, with an angry glance directed at the boys.“Cheer up!” laughed Jimmie.“Cheer up, old top, and remember that the
worst is yet to come!Say!” the boy added in a moment.“How would it do
to step out to the entrance and shoot a couple of those noisy savages?”

“I never learned how to shoot with an empty gun!” Carl said scornfully.“How many cartridges have you in your gun?” asked Jimmie of Sam.“About six,” was the reply.“I used two out of the clip on the jaguars
and two were fired on the ride to Quito.”

“And that’s all the ammunition we’ve got, is it?” demanded Carl.“That’s all we’ve got here!” answered Sam.“There’s plenty more at the
machine if the Indians haven’t taken possession of it.”

“Little good that does us!” growled Jimmie.“You couldn’t eat ’em!” laughed Carl.“But I’ll tell you what I could do!” insisted Jimmie.“If we had plenty
of ammunition, I could make a sneak outside and bring in game enough to
keep us eating for a month.”

“You know what always happens to you when you go out after something to
eat!” laughed Carl.“You always get into trouble!”

“But I always get back, don’t I?” demanded Jimmie.“I guess the time
will come, before long, when you’ll be glad to see me starting out for
some kind of game!We’re not going to remain quietly here and starve.”

“That looks like going out hunting,” said Sam, pointing to the savages
outside.“Those fellows might have something to say about it.”

It was now broad daylight.The early sunshine lay like a mist of gold
over the tops of the distant peaks, and birds were cutting the clear,
sweet air with their sharp cries.Many of the Indians outside being sun
worshipers, the boys saw them still on their knees with hands and face
uplifted to the sunrise.The air in the valley was growing warmer every minute.By noon, when the
sun would look almost vertically down, it promised to be very hot, as
the mountains shut out the breeze.“I don’t think it will be necessary to look for game,” Sam went on in a
moment, “for the reason that the _Louise_ and _Bertha_, ought to be here
soon after sunset.It may possibly take them a little longer than that
to cover the distance, as they do not sail so fast as the _Ann_, but at
least they should be here before to-morrow morning.Then you’ll see the
savages scatter!” he added with a smile.“And you’ll see Jimmie eat,
too!”

“Don’t mention it!” cried the boy.“Yes,” Carl suggested, “but won’t Mr.Havens and the boys remain in
Quito two or three days waiting for us to come back?”

“I think not,” was the reply.Havens to pick us up
somewhere between Quito and Lake Titicaca in case we did not return
before morning.I have an idea that they’ll start out sometime during
the forenoon—say ten o’clock—and reach this point, at the latest, by
midnight.”

“They can’t begin to sail as fast as we did!” suggested Carl.“If they make forty miles an hour,” Sam explained, “and stop only three
or four times to rest, they can get here before midnight, all right!”

“Gee!That’s a long time to go without eating!” cried Jimmie.“And, even
at that,” he went on in a moment, “they may shoot over us like a couple
of express trains, and go on south without ever knowing we are here.”

Sam turned to Pedro with an inquiring look on his face.“Where is Miguel?” he asked.“Gone!” he said.“Well, then,” Sam went on, “what about the red and blue lights?Can you
stage that little drama for us to-night?”

“What is stage?” demanded Pedro.“I don’t know what you mean.”

“Chestnuts!” exclaimed Jimmie impatiently.“He wants to know if you can
work the lights as Miguel did.He wants to know if you can keep the
lights burning to-night in order to attract the attention of people who
are coming to drive the Indians away.Do you get it?”

Pedro’s face brightened perceptibly.“Coming to drive the Indians away?” he repeated.“Yes, I can burn the
lights.They shall burn from the going down of the sun.Also,” he added
with a hopeful expression on his face, “the Indians may see the lights
and disappear again in the forest.”

“Yes, they will!” laughed Carl.“Let him think so if he wants to,” cautioned Jimmie.“He’ll take better
care of the lights if he thinks that will in any way add to the
possibility of release.But midnight!” the boy went on.“Think of all
that time without anything to eat!Say,” he whispered to Carl, in a soft
aside, “if you can get Sam asleep sometime during the day and get the
gun away from him, I’m going to make a break for the tall timber and
bring in a deer, or a brace of rabbits, or something of that kind.There’s plenty of cooking utensils in that other chamber and plenty of
dishes, so we can have a mountain stew with very little trouble if we
can only get the meat to put into it.”

“And there’s the stew they left,” suggested Carl.“Not for me!” Jimmie answered.“I’m not going to take any chances on
being poisoned.I’d rather build a fire on that dizzy old hearth they
used, and broil a steak from one of the jaguars than eat that stew—or
anything they left for that matter.”

“I don’t believe you can get out into the hills,” objected Carl.“I can try,” Jimmie suggested, “if I can only get that gun away from
Sam.Look here,” he went
on, “suppose I fix up in the long, flowing robe, and dig up the wigs and
things Miguel must have worn, and walk in a dignified manner between the
ranks of the Indians?What do you know about that?”

“That would probably be all right,” Carl answered, “until you began
shooting game, and then they’d just naturally put you into a stew.They
know very well that gods in white robes don’t have to kill game in order
to sustain life.”

“Oh, why didn’t you let me dream?” demanded Jimmie.“I was just figuring
how I could get about four gallons of stew.”

Abandoning the cherished hope of getting out into the forest for the
time being, Jimmie now approached Pedro and began asking him questions
concerning his own stock of provisions.“According to your own account,” the boy said, “you’ve been living here
right along for some weeks, taking care of the wild animals as the
collectors brought them in.Now you must have plenty of provisions
stored away somewhere.Dig ’em up!”

Pedro declared that there were no provisions at all about the place,
adding that everything had been consumed the previous day except the
remnants left in the living chamber.He said, however, that he expected
provisions to be brought in by his two companions within two days.In
the meantime, he had arranged on such wild game as he could bring down.Abandoning another hope, Jimmie passed through the narrow passage and
into the chamber where he had come so near to death.The round eye of
his searchlight revealed the jaguars still lying on the marble floor.The roof above this chamber appeared to be comparatively whole, yet here
and there the warm sunlight streamed in through minute crevices between
the slabs.The boy crossed the chamber, not without a little shiver of
terror at the thought of the dangers he had met there, and peered into
the mouth of the den from which the wild beasts had made their
appearance.The odor emanating from the room beyond was not at all pleasant, but,
resolving to see for himself what the place contained, he pushed on and
soon stood in a subterranean room hardly more than twelve feet square.There were six steps leading down into the chamber, and these seemed to
the boy to be worn and polished smooth as if from long use.“It’s a bet!” the lad chuckled, as he crawled through the opening and
slid cautiously down the steps, “that this stairway was used a hundred
times a day while the old priests lived here.In that case,” he argued,
“there must have been some reason for constant use of the room.And all
this,” he went on, “leads me to the conclusion that the old fellows had
a secret way out of the temple and that it opens from this very room.”

While the boy stood at the bottom of the steps flashing his light around
the confined space, Carl’s figure appeared into the opening above.“What have you found?” the latter asked.“Nothing yet but bad air and stone walls!” replied Jimmie.“What are you looking for?” was the next question.“A way out!” answered Jimmie.Carl came down the steps and the two boys examined the chamber carefully
for some evidence of a hidden exit.They were about to abandon the quest
when Jimmie struck the handle of his pocket knife, which he had been
using in the investigation, against a stone which gave back a hollow
sound.“Here you are!” Jimmie cried.“There’s a hole back of that stone.If we
can only get it out, we’ll kiss the savages ‘good-bye’ and get back to
the _Ann_ in quick time.”

The boys pried and pounded at the stone until at last it gave way under
pressure and fell backward with a crash.“There!” Jimmie shouted.“I knew it!”




                              CHAPTER XIX.“Yes, you knew it all right!” Carl exclaimed, as the boy stood looking
into the dark passage revealed by the falling of the stone.“You always
know a lot of things just after they occur!”

“Anyway,” Jimmie answered with a grin, “I knew there ought to be a
secret passage somewhere.Where do you suppose the old thing leads to?”

“For one thing,” Carl answered, “it probably leads under the great stone
slab in front of the entrance, because when Miguel, the foxy boy with
the red and blue lights, disappeared he went down into the ground right
there.And I’ll bet,” he went on, “that it runs out to the rocky
elevation to the west and connects with the forest near where the
machine is.”

“Those old chaps must have burrowed like rabbits!” declared Jimmie.“Don’t you think the men who operated the temples ever carried the
stones which weigh a hundred tons or cut passages through solid rocks!”
Carl declared.“They worked the Indians for all that part of the game,
just as the Egyptians worked the Hebrews on the lower Nile.”

“Well, the only way to find out where it goes,” Jimmie suggested, “is to
follow it.We can’t stand here and guess it out.”

“Indeed we can’t,” agreed Carl.“I’ll go on down the incline and you
follow along.Looks pretty slippery here, so we’d better keep close
together.I don’t suppose we can put the stone back,” he added with a
parting glance into the chamber.“What would we want to put it back for?” demanded Jimmie.“How do we know who will be snooping around here while we are under
ground?” Carl asked impatiently.“If some one should come along here and
stuff the stone back into the hole and we shouldn’t be able to find any
exit, we’d be in a nice little tight box, wouldn’t we?”

“Well, if we can’t lift it back into the hole,” Jimmie argued, “I guess
we can push it along in front of us.This incline seems slippery enough
to pass it along like a sleighload of girls on a snowy hill.”

The boys concentrated their strength, which was not very great at that
time because of their wounds, on the stone and were soon gratified to
see it sliding swiftly out of sight along a dark incline.“I wonder what Sam will say?” asked Jimmie.“He won’t know anything about it!” Carl declared.“Oh, yes, he will!” asserted Jimmie, “he’ll be looking around before
we’ve been absent ten minutes.Perhaps we’d ought to go back and tell
him what we’ve found, and what we’re going to do.”

“Then he’d want to go with us,” Carl suggested, “and that would leave
the savages to sneak into the temple whenever they find the nerve to do
so, and also leave Pedro to work any old tricks he saw fit.Besides,”
the boy went on, “we won’t be gone more than ten minutes.”

“You’re always making a sneak on somebody,” grinned Jimmie.“You had to
go and climb up on our machine last night, and get mixed up in all this
trouble.You’re always doing something of the kind!”

“I guess you’re glad I stuck around, ain’t you?” laughed Carl.“You’d
’a’ had a nice time in that den of lions without my gun, eh?”

“Well, get a move on!” laughed Jimmie.“And hang on to the walls as you
go ahead.This floor looks like one of the chutes under the newspaper
offices in New York.And hold your light straight ahead.”

The incline extended only a few yards.Arrived at the bottom, the boys
estimated that the top of the six-foot passage was not more than a
couple of yards from the surface of the earth.Much to their surprise
they found the air in the place remarkably pure.At the bottom of the incline the passage turned away to the north for a
few paces, then struck out west.From this angle the boys could see
little fingers of light which probably penetrated into the passage from
crevices in the steps of the temple.Gaining the front of the old structure, they saw that one of the stones
just below the steps was hung on a rude though perfectly reliable hinge,
and that a steel rod attached to it operated a mechanism which placed
the slab entirely under the control of any one mounting the steps, if
acquainted with the secret of the door.“Here’s where Miguel drops down!” laughed Jimmie, his searchlight prying
into the details of the cunning device.“Well, well!” he went on, “those
old Incas certainly took good care of their precious carcasses.It’s a
pity they couldn’t have coaxed the Spaniards into some of their secret
passages and then sealed them up!”

The passage ran on to the west after passing the temple for some
distance, and then turned abruptly to the north.The lights showed a
long, tunnel-like place, apparently cut in the solid rock.“I wonder if this tunnel leads to the woods we saw at the west of the
cove,” Carl asked.“I hope it does!” he added, “for then we can get to
the machine and get something to eat and get some ammunition and,” he
added hopefully, “we may be able to get away in the jolly old _Ann_ and
leave the Indians watching an empty temple.”

“Do you suppose Miguel came into this passage when he dropped out of
sight in front of the temple?” asked Jimmie.“Of course, he did!”

“Then where did he go?”

“Why, back into the temple.”

“Through the den of lions?I guess not!”

“That’s a fact!” exclaimed Carl.“He wouldn’t go through the den of
lions, would he?And he never could have traveled this passage to the
end and hiked back over the country in time to drop the gate and lift
the bars in front of the den!It was Miguel that did that, wasn’t it?”
the boy added, turning enquiringly to his chum.“It must have been for
there was no one else there.”

“What are you getting at?” asked Jimmie.“There must be a passage leading from this one
back into the temple on the west side.It may enter the room where the
bunks are, or it may come into the corridor back by the fountain, but
there’s one somewhere all right.”

“You’re the wise little boy!” laughed Jimmie.“Let’s go and see.”

The boys returned to the trap-like slab in front of the temple and from
that point examined every inch of the south wall for a long distance.Finally a push on a stone brought forth a grinding noise, and then a
passage similar to that discovered in the den was revealed.“There you are!” said Carl.“There’s the passage that leads to the west
side of the temple.Shall we go on in and give Sam and Pedro the merry
ha, ha?Mighty funny,” he added, without waiting for his question to be
answered, “that all these trap doors are so easily found and work so
readily.They’re just about as easy to manipulate as one of the foolish
houses we see on the stage.It’s no trick to operate them at all.”

“Well,” Jimmie argued, “these passages and traps are doubtless used
every day by a man who don’t take any precautions about keeping them
hidden.I presume Miguel is the only person here who knows of their
existence, and he just slams around in them sort of careless-like.”

“That’s the answer!” replied Carl.“Let’s chase along and see where the
tunnel ends, and then get back to Sam.He may be crying his eyes out for
our polite society right now!”

The boys followed the tunnel for what seemed to them to be a long
distance.At length they came to a turn from which a mist of daylight
could be seen.In five minutes more they stood looking out into the
forest.The entrance to the passage was concealed only by carelessly heaped-up
rocks, between the interstices of which grew creeping vines and
brambles.Looking from the forest side, the place resembled a heap of
rocks, probably inhabited by all manner of creeping things and covered
over with vines.As the boys peered out between the vines, Jimmie nudged his chum in the
side and whispered as he pointed straight out:

“There’s the _Ann_.”

“But that isn’t where we left her!” argued Carl.“Well, it’s the _Ann_, just the same, isn’t it?”

“I suppose so,” was the reply.“I presume,” the boy went on, “the
Indians moved it to the place where it now is.”

“Don’t you ever think they did!” answered Jimmie.“The Indians wouldn’t
touch it with a pair of tongs!Felix and Pedro probably moved it, the
idea being to hide it from view.”

“I guess that’s right!” Carl agreed.“I’m going out,” he continued, in a
moment, “and see if I can find any savages.I won’t be gone very long.”

“What you mean,” Jimmie grinned, “is that you’re going out to see if you
won’t find any savages.That is,” he went on, “you think of going out.As a matter of fact, I’m the one that’s going out, because the wild
beasts chewed you up proper, and they didn’t hurt me at all.”

The boy crowded past Carl as he spoke and dodged out into the forest.Carl waited impatiently for ten minutes and was on the point of going in
quest of the boy when Jimmie came leisurely up to the curtain of vines
which hid the passage and looked in with a grin on his freckled face.“Come on out,” he said, “the air is fine!”

“Any savages?” asked Carl.“Not a savage!”

“Anything to eat?” demanded the boy.“Bales of it!” answered Jimmie.“The savages never touched the _Ann_.”

Carl crept out of the opening and made his way to where Jimmie sat flat
on the bole of a fallen tree eating ham sandwiches.“Are there any left?” he asked.“Half a bushel!”

“Then perhaps the others stand some chance of getting one or two.”

“There’s more than we can all eat before to-morrow morning,” Jimmie
answered.“And if the relief train doesn’t come before that time we’ll
mount the _Ann_ and glide away.”

While the boys sat eating their sandwiches and enjoying the clear sweet
air of the morning, there came an especially savage chorus of yells from
the direction of the temple.“The Indians seem to be a mighty enthusiastic race!” declared Jimmie.“Suppose we go to the _Ann_, grab the provisions, and go back to the
temple just to see what they’re amusing themselves with now!”

This suggestion meeting with favor, the boys proceeded to the aeroplane
which was only a short distance away and loaded themselves down with
provisions and cartridges.During their journey they saw not the
slightest indications of the Indians.It was quite evident that they
were all occupied with the _siege_ of the temple.On leaving the entrance, the boys restored the vines so far as possible
to their original condition and filled their automatics with cartridges.“No one will ever catch me without cartridges again,” Carl declared as
he patted his weapon.“The idea of getting into a den of lions with only
four shots between us and destruction!”

“Well, hurry up!” cried Jimmie.“I know from the accent the Indians
placed on the last syllable that there’s something doing at the temple.And Sam, you know, hasn’t got many cartridges.”

“I wouldn’t run very fast,” declared Carl, “if I knew that the Indians
had captured Miguel.That’s the ruffian who shut us into the den of
lions!”

When the boys came to the passage opening from the tunnel on the west of
the temple, they turned into it and proceeded a few yards south.Here
they found an opening which led undoubtedly directly to the rear of the
corridor in the vicinity of the fountain.The stone which had in past years concealed the mouth of this passage
had evidently not been used for a long time, for it lay broken into
fragments on the stone floor.When the boys came to the end of the passage, they saw by the slices of
light which lay between the stones that they were facing the corridor
from the rear.They knew well enough that somewhere in that vicinity was
a door opening into the temple, but for some moments they could not find
it.At last Jimmie, prying into a crack with his knife, struck a piece
of metal and the stone dropped backward.He was about to crawl through into the corridor when Carl caught him by
one leg and held him back.It took the lad only an instant to comprehend
what was going on.A horde of savages was crowding up the steps and into
the temple itself, and Sam stood in the middle of the corridor with a
smoking weapon in his hand.As the boys looked he threw the automatic into the faces of the
onrushing crowd as if its usefulness had departed.THE SAVAGES MAKE MORE TROUBLE.“Pedro said the savages wouldn’t dare enter the temple!” declared Jimmie
as he drew back.Without stopping to comment on the situation, Carl called out:

“Drop, Sam, drop!”

The young man whirled about, saw the opening in the rear wall, saw the
brown barrels of the automatics, and instantly dropped to the floor.The
Indians advanced no farther, for in less time than it takes to say the
words a rain of bullets struck into their ranks.Half a dozen fell to
the floor and the others retreated, sneaking back in a minute, however,
to remove the bodies of their dead and wounded companions.The boys did not fire while this duty was being performed.In a minute from the time of the opening of the stone panel in the wall
there was not a savage in sight.Only for the smears of blood on the
white marble floor, and on the steps outside, no one would have imagined
that so great a tragedy had been enacted there only a few moments
before.Sam rose slowly to his feet and stood by the boys as they
crawled out of the narrow opening just above the basin of the fountain.“I’m glad to see you, kids,” he said, in a matter-of-fact tone, although
his face was white to the lips.“You came just in time!”

“We usually do arrive on schedule,” Jimmie grinned, trying to make as
little as possible of the rescue.“You did this time at any rate!” replied Sam.“But, look here,” he went
on, glancing at the automatics in their hands, “I thought the ammunition
was all used up in the den of lions.”

“We got some more!” laughed Carl.“More—where?”

“At the _Ann_!”

Sam leaned back against the wall, a picture of amazement.“You haven’t been out to the _Ann_ have you?” he asked.For reply Jimmie drew a great package of sandwiches and another of
cartridges out of the opening in the wall.“We haven’t, eh?” he laughed.“That certainly looks like it!” declared Sam.The boys briefly related the story of their visit to the aeroplane while
Sam busied himself with the sandwiches, and then they loaded the three
automatics and distributed the remaining clips about their persons.“And now what?” asked Carl, after the completion of the recital.“Are we going to take the _Ann_ and slip away from these worshipers of
the Sun?” asked Jimmie.“We can do it all right!”

“I don’t know about that,” argued Sam.“You drove them away from the
temple, and the chances are that they will return to the forest and will
remain there until they get the courage to make another attack on us.”

“It won’t take long to go and find out whether they are in the forest or
not!” Carl declared.“Perhaps,” Sam suggested, “we’d better wait here for the others to come
up.They ought to be here to-night.”

“If it’s a sure thing that we can let them know where we are,” Carl
agreed, “that might be all right.”

“What’s the matter with the red and blue lights?” asked Jimmie.“By the way,” Carl inquired looking about the place, “where is Pedro?”

“He took to his heels when the savages made the rush.”

“Which way did he go?” asked Jimmie.“I think he went in the direction of that little menagerie you boys
found last night!” replied Sam.“Then I’ll bet he knows where the tunnel is!” Carl shouted, dashing
away.“I’ll bet he’s lit out for the purpose of bringing a lot of his
conspirators in here to do us up!”

Jimmie followed his chum, and the two searched the entire system of
tunnels known to them without discovering any trace of the missing man.“That’s a nice thing!” Jimmie declared.“We probably passed him
somewhere on our way back to the temple.By this time he’s off over the
hills, making signals for some one to come and help put us to the bad.”

“I’m afraid you’re right!” replied Sam.The boys ate their sandwiches and discussed plans and prospects,
listening in the meantime for indications of the two missing men.Several times they thought they heard soft footsteps in the apartments
opening from the corridor, but in each case investigation revealed
nothing.It was a long afternoon, but finally the sun disappeared over the ridge
to the west of the little lake and the boys began considering the
advisability of making ready to signal to the _Louise_ and _Bertha_.“They will surely be here?” said Carl hopefully.“I am certain of it!” answered Sam.“Then we’d better be getting something on top of the temple to make a
light,” advised Jimmie.“If I had Miguel by the neck, he’d bring out his
red and blue lights before he took another breath!” he added.“Perhaps we can find the lights,” suggested Sam.This idea being very much to the point, the boys scattered themselves
over the three apartments and searched diligently for the lamps or
candles which had been used by Miguel on the previous night.“Nothing doing!” Jimmie declared, returning to the corridor.“Nothing doing!” echoed Carl, coming in from the other way.Sam joined the group in a moment looking very much discouraged.“Boys,” he said, “I’ve been broke in nearly all the large cities on both
Western continents.I’ve been kicked out of lodging houses, and I’ve
walked hundreds of miles with broken shoes and little to eat, but of all
the everlasting, consarned, ridiculous, propositions I ever butted up
against, this is the worst!”

The boys chuckled softly but made no reply.“We know well enough,” he went on, “that there are rockets, or lamps, or
torches, or candles, enough hidden about this place to signal all the
transcontinental trains in the world but we can’t find enough of them to
flag a hand-car on an uphill grade!”

“What’s the matter with the searchlights?” asked Jimmie.“Not sufficiently strong!”

Without any explanation, Jimmie darted away from the group and began a
tour of the temple.First he walked along the walls of the corridor then
darted to the other room, then out on the steps in front.“His trouble has turned his head!” jeered Carl.“Look here, you fellows!” Jimmie answered darting back into the temple.“There’s a great white rock on the cliff back of the temple.It looks
like one of these memorial stones aldermen put their names on when they
build a city hall.All we have to do to signal the aeroplanes is to put
red caps over our searchlights and turn them on that cliff.They will
make a circle of fire there that will look like the round, red face of a
harvest moon.”

“That’s right!” agreed Carl.“A very good idea!” Sam added.“I’ve been trying to find a way to get up on the roof,” Jimmie
continued, “but can’t find one.You see,” he went on, “we can operate
our searchlights better from the top of the temple.”

“We’ll have to find a way to get up there!” Sam insisted.“Unless we can make the illumination on the cliff through the hole in
the roof,” Jimmie proposed.“And that’s another good proposition!” Sam agreed.“And so,” laughed Carl, “the stage is set and the actors are in the
wings, and I’m going to crawl into one of the bunks in the west room and
go to sleep.”

“You go, too, Jimmie,” Sam advised.“I’ll wake you up if anything
happens.I can get my rest later on.”

The boys were not slow in accepting the invitation, and in a very short
time were sound asleep.It would be time for the _Bertha_ and _Louise_
to show directly, and so Sam placed the red caps over the lamps of two
of the electrics and sat where he could throw the rays through the break
in the roof.Curious to know if the result was exactly as he
anticipated, he finally propped one of the lights in position on the
floor and went out to the entrance to look up at the rock.As he stepped out on the smooth slab of marble in front of the entrance
something whizzed within an inch of his head and dropped with a crash on
the stones below.Without stopping to investigate the young man dodged
into the temple again and looked out.“Now, I wonder,” he thought, as he lifted the electric so that its red
light struck the smooth face of the rock above more directly, “whether
that kind remembrance was from our esteemed friends Pedro and Miguel, or
whether it came from the Indians.”

He listened intently for a moment and presently heard the sound of
shuffling feet from above.It was apparent that the remainder of the
evening was not to be as peaceful and quiet as he had anticipated.Realizing that the hostile person or persons on the roof might in a
moment begin dropping their rocks down to the floor of the corridor, he
passed hastily into the west chamber and stood by the doorway looking
out.This interference, he understood, would effectually prevent any
illumination of the white rock calculated to serve as a signal to Mr.Some other means of attracting their attention must
be devised.The corridor lay dim in the faint light of the stars which
came through the break in the roof, and he threw the light of his
electric up and down the stone floor in order to make sure that the
enemy was not actually creeping into the temple from the entrance.While he stood flashing the light about he almost uttered an exclamation
of fright as a grating sound in the vicinity of the fountain came to his
ears.He cast his light in that direction and saw the stone which had
been replaced by the boys retreating slowly into the wall.Then a dusky face looked out of the opening, and, without considering
the ultimate consequences of his act, he fired full at the threatening
eyes which were searching the interior.There was a groan, a fall, and
the stone moved back to its former position.He turned to awaken Jimmie and Carl but the sound of the shot had
already accomplished that, and the boys were standing in the middle of
the floor with automatics in their hands.“What’s coming off?” asked Jimmie.“Was that thunder?” demanded Carl.“Thunder don’t smell like that,” suggested Jimmie, sniffing at the
powder smoke.“I guess Sam has been having company.”

“Right you are,” said Sam, doing his best to keep the note of
apprehension out of his voice.“Our friends are now occupying the tunnel
you told me about.At least one of them was, not long ago.”

“Now, see here,” Jimmie broke in, “I’m getting tired of this
hide-and-seek business around this blooming old ruin.We came out to
sail in the air, and not crawl like snakes through underground
passages.”

“What’s the answer?” asked Carl.“According to Sam’s story,” Jimmie went on, “we won’t be able to signal
our friends with our red lights to-night.In that case, they’re likely
to fly by, on their way south, without discovering our whereabouts.”

“And so you want to go back to the machine, eh?” Sam questioned.“That’s the idea,” answered Jimmie.“I want to get up into God’s free
air again, where I can see the stars, and the snow caps on the
mountains!I want to build a roaring old fire on some shelf of rock and
build up a stew big enough for a regiment of state troops!Then I want
to roll up in a blanket and sleep for about a week.”

“That’s me, too!” declared Carl.“It may not be possible to get to the machine,” suggested Sam.“I’ll let you know in about five minutes!” exclaimed Jimmie darting
recklessly across the corridor and into the chamber which had by mutual
consent been named the den of lions.Sam called to him to return but the boy paid no heed to the warning.“Come on!” Carl urged the next moment.“We’ve got to go with him.”

Sam seized a package of sandwiches which lay on the roughly constructed
table and darted with the boy across the corridor, through the east
chamber, into the subterranean one, and passed into the tunnel, the
entrance to which, it will be remembered, had been left open.Some distance down in the darkness, probably where the passage swung
away to the north, they saw a glimmer of light.Directly they heard
Jimmie’s voice calling softly through the odorous darkness.“Come on!” he whispered.“We may as well get out to the woods and see
what’s doing there.”

The two half-walked, half-stumbled, down the slippery incline and joined
Jimmie at the bottom.“Now we want to look out,” the boy said as they came to the angle which
faced the west.“There may be some of those rude persons in the tunnel
ahead of us.”

Not caring to proceed in the darkness, they kept their lights burning as
they advanced.When they came to the cross passage which led to the rear
of the corridor they listened for an instant and thought they detected a
low murmur of voices in the distance.“Let’s investigate!” suggested Carl.“Investigate nothing!” replied Jimmie.“Let’s move for the machine and
the level of the stars.If the savages are there, we’ll chase ’em out.”

But the savages were not there.When the three came to the curtain of
vines which concealed the entrance to the passage, the forest seemed as
still as it had been on the day of creation.They moved out of the tangle and crept forward to the aeroplane, their
lights now out entirely, and their automatics ready for use.They were
soon at the side of the machine.After as good an examination as could possibly be made in the
semi-darkness, Sam declared that nothing had been molested, and that the
_Ann_ was, apparently, in as good condition for flight as it had been at
the moment of landing.“Why didn’t we do this in the afternoon, while the <DW65>s were out of
sight?” asked Carl in disgust.“Sam said we couldn’t!” grinned Jimmie.“Anyhow,” Sam declared, “we’re going to see right now whether we can or
not.We’ll have to push the old bird out into a clear place first,
though!”

Here the talk was interrupted by a chorus of savage shouts.The _Louise_ and the _Bertha_ left the field near Quito amid the shouts
of a vast crowd which gathered in the early part of the day.As the
aeroplanes sailed majestically into the air, Mr.Havens saw Mellen
sitting in a motor-car waving a white handkerchief in farewell.The millionaire and Ben rode in the _Louise_, while Glenn followed in
the _Bertha_.For a few moments the clatter of the motors precluded
conversation, then the aviator slowed down a trifle and asked his
companion:

“Was anything seen of Doran to-day?”

Ben shook his head.“I half believe,” Mr.Havens continued, “that the code despatches were
stolen by him last night from the hotel, copied, and the copies sent out
to the field to be delivered to some one of the conspirators.”

“But no one could translate them,” suggested Ben.“I’m not so sure of that,” was the reply.“The code is by no means a new
one.I have often reproached myself for not changing it after Redfern
disappeared with the money.”

“If it’s the same code you used then,” Ben argued, “you may be sure
there is some one of the conspirators who can do the translating.Why,”
he went on, “there must be.They wouldn’t have stolen code despatches
unless they knew how to read them.”

“In that case,” smiled Mr.Havens grimly, “they have actually secured
the information they desire from the men they are fighting.”

“Were the messages important?” asked Ben.“Duplicates of papers contained in deposit box A,” was the answer.“What can they learn from them?”

“The route mapped out for our journey south!” was the reply.“Including
the names of places where Redfern may be in hiding.”

“And so they’ll be apt to guard all those points?” asked Ben.As the reader will understand, one point, that at the ruined temple, had
been very well guarded indeed!“Yes,” replied the millionaire.“They are likely to look out for us at
all the places mentioned in the code despatches.”

Ben gave a low whistle of dismay, and directly the motors were pushing
the machine forward at the rate of fifty or more miles an hour.The aviators stopped on a level plateau about the middle of the
afternoon to prepare dinner, and then swept on again.At nightfall, they
were in the vicinity of a summit which lifted like a cone from a
circular shelf of rock which almost completely surrounded it.The millionaire aviator encircled the peak and finally decided that a
landing might be made with safety.He dropped the _Louise_ down very
slowly and was gratified to find that there would be little difficulty
in finding a resting-place below.As soon as he landed he turned his
eyes toward the _Bertha_, still circling above.The machine seemed to be coming steadily toward the shelf, but as he
looked the great planes wavered and tipped, and when the aeroplane
actually landed it was with a crash which threw Glenn from his seat and
brought about a great rattling of machinery.Glenn arose from the rock wiping blood from his face.“I’m afraid that’s the end of the _Bertha_!” he exclaimed.“I hope not,” replied Ben.“I think a lot of that old machine.”

Mr.Havens, after learning that Glenn’s injuries were not serious,
hastened over to the aeroplane and began a careful examination of the
motors.“I think,” he said in a serious tone, “that the threads on one of the
turn-buckles on one of the guy wires stripped so as to render the planes
unmanageable.”

“They were unmanageable, all right!” Glenn said, rubbing the sore spots
on his knees.“Can we fix it right here?” Ben asked.“That depends on whether we have a supply of turn-buckles,” replied
Havens.“They certainly ought to be in stock somewhere.”

“Glory be!” cried Glenn.“We sure have plenty of turn-buckles!”

“Get one out, then,” the millionaire directed, “and we’ll see what we
can do with it.”

The boys hunted everywhere in the tool boxes of both machines without
finding what they sought.“I know where they are!” said Glenn glumly in a moment.“Then get one out!” advised Ben.“They’re on the _Ann_!” explained Glenn.“If you remember we put the
spark plugs and a few other things of that sort on the _Louise_ and put
the turn-buckles on the _Ann_.”

“Now, you wait a minute,” Mr.“Perhaps I can use the old
turn-buckle on the sharp threads of the _Louise_ and put the one which
belongs there in the place of this worn one.Sometimes a transfer of
that kind can be made to work in emergencies.”

“That’ll be fine!” exclaimed Ben.I’ll hold the light while you take the buckle off the _Louise_.”

Ben turned his flashlight on the guy wires and the aviator began turning
the buckle.The wires were very taut, and when the last thread was
reached one of them sprang away so violently that the turn-buckle was
knocked from his hand.The next moment they heard it rattling in the
gorge below.Havens sat flat down on the shelf of rocks and looked at the parted
wires hopelessly.“Well,” the millionaire said presently, “I guess we’re in for a good
long cold night up in the sky.”

“Did you ever see such rotten luck?” demanded Glenn.“Cheer up!” cried Ben.“We’ll find some way out of it.”

“Have you got any fish-lines, boys?” asked the aviator.“You bet I have!” replied Ben.“You wouldn’t catch me off on a
flying-machine trip without a fish-line.We’re going to have some fish
before we get off the Andes.”

“Well,” said Mr.Havens, “pass it over and I’ll see if I can fasten
these wires together with strong cord and tighten them up with a
twister.”

“Why not?” asked Ben.“I’ve seen things of that kind done often enough!” declared Glenn.“And, besides,” Glenn added, “we may be able to use the worn turn-buckle
on the _Louise_ and go after repairs, leaving the _Bertha_ here.”

“I don’t like to do that!” objected the millionaire aviator.“I believe
we can arrange to take both machines out with us.”

But it was not such an easy matter fastening the cords and arranging the
twister as had been anticipated.They all worked over the problem for an
hour or more without finding any method of preventing the fish-line from
breaking when the twister was applied.When drawn so tight that it was
impossible to slip, the eyes showed a disposition to cut the strands.At last they decided that it would be unsafe to use the _Bertha_ in that
condition and turned to the _Louise_ with the worn turn-buckle.To their dismay they found that the threads were worn so that it would
be unsafe to trust themselves in the air with any temporary expedient
which might be used to strengthen the connection.“This brings us back to the old proposition of a night under the
clouds!” the millionaire said.“Or above the clouds,” Ben added, “if this fog keeps coming.”

Leaving the millionaire still studying over the needed repairs, Ben and
his chum followed the circular cliff for some distance until they came
to the east side of the cone.They stood looking over the landscape for
a moment and then turned back to the machines silently and with grave
faces.“Have you got plenty of ammunition, Mr.“I think so,” was the reply.“That’s good!” answered Ben.“Why the question?” Mr.Havens asked, with a surprised look.“Because,” Ben replied, “there’s a lot of Peruvian miners down on a
lower shelf of this cone and they’re drunk.”

“Well, they can’t get up here, can they?” asked Mr.“They’re making a stab at it!” answered Ben.“There seems to be a strike or something of that sort on down there,”
Glenn explained, “and it looks as if the fellows wanted to get up here
and take possession of the aeroplanes.”

“Perhaps we can talk them out of it!” smiled the millionaire.“I’m afraid we’ll have to do something more than talk,” Glenn answered.The three now went to the east side of the cone and looked down.There
was a gully leading from the shelf to a plateau below.At some past time
this gully had evidently been the bed of a running mountain stream.On
the plateau below were excavations and various pieces of crude mining
machinery.Between the excavations and the bottom of the gully at least a hundred
men were racing for the cut, which seemed to offer an easy mode of
access to the shelf where the flying machines lay.“We’ll have to stand here and keep them back!” Mr.“I don’t believe we can keep them back,” Glenn answered, “for there may
be other places similar to this.Those miners can almost climb a
vertical wall.”

The voices of the miners could now be distinctly heard, and at least
three or four of them were speaking in English.His words were greeted by a howl of derision.Havens said in a moment, “one of you would better go back
to the machines and see if there is danger from another point.”

Ben started away, but paused and took his friend by the arm.“What do you think of that?” he demanded, pointing away to the south.Havens grasped the boy’s hand and in the excitement of the moment
shook it vigorously.“I think,” he answered, “that those are the lights of the _Ann_, and
that we’ll soon have all the turn-buckles we want.”

The prophesy was soon verified.The _Ann_ landed with very little
difficulty, and the boys were soon out on the ledge.The miners drew back grumbling and soon disappeared in the excavations
below.As may well be imagined the greetings which passed between the two
parties were frank and heartfelt.The repair box of the _Ann_ was well
supplied with turn-buckles, and in a very short time the three machines
were on their way to the south.Havens and Sam sat together on the _Ann_, and during the long hours
after midnight while the machines purred softly through the chill air of
the mountains, the millionaire was informed of all that had taken place
at the ruined temple.“And that ruined temple you have described,” Mr.Havens said, with a
smile, “is in reality one of the underground stations on the way to the
Mystery of the Andes at Lake Titicaca.”

“And why?” asked Sam, “do they call any special point down there the
mystery of the Andes?There are plenty of mysteries in these tough old
mountain ranges!” he added with a smile.“But this is a particularly mysterious kind of a mystery,” replied Mr.“I’ll tell you all about it some other time.”




                             CHAPTER XXII.A great camp-fire blazed in one of the numerous valleys which nestle in
the Andes to the east of Lake Titicaca.The three flying machines, the
_Ann_, the _Louise_ and the _Bertha_, lay just outside the circle of
illumination.It was the evening of the fourth day after the incidents
recorded in the last chapter.The Flying Machine Boys had traveled at good speed, yet with frequent
rests, from the mountain cone above the Peruvian mines to the little
valley in which the machines now lay.Jimmie and Carl, well wrapped in blankets, were lying with their feet
extended toward the blaze, while Glenn was broiling venison steak at one
corner of the great fire, and, also, as he frequently explained,
broiling his face to a lobster finish while he turned the steaks about
in order to get the exact finish.The millionaire aviator and Sam sat some distance away discussing
prospects and plans for the next day.While they talked an Indian
accompanied by Ben came slowly out of the shadows at the eastern edge of
the valley and approached the fire.“Have you discovered the Mystery of the Andes?” asked Havens with a
laugh as the two came up.“We certainly have discovered the Mystery of the Andes!” cried Ben
excitedly.“But we haven’t discovered the mystery of the mystery!”

“Come again!” shouted Jimmie springing to his feet.“You see,” Ben went on, “Toluca took me to a point on the cliff to the
south from which the ghost lights of the mysterious fortress can be
seen, but we don’t know any more about the origin of the lights than we
did before we saw them.”

“Then there really are lights?” asked Carl.“There certainly are!” replied Ben.“What kind of an old shop, is it?” asked Jimmie.“It’s one of the old-time fortresses,” replied Ben.“It is built on a
steep mountainside and guards a pass between this valley and one beyond.It looks as if it might have been a rather formidable fortress a few
hundred years ago, but now a shot from a modern gun would send the
battlements flying into the valley.”

“But why the lights?” demanded Jimmie.“That’s the mystery!” Ben answered.“They’re ghost lights!”

“Up to within a few months,” Mr.Havens began, “this fortress has never
attracted much attention.It is said to be rather a large fortification,
and some of the apartments are said to extend under the cliff, in the
same manner as many of the gun rooms on Gibraltar extend into the
interior of that solid old rock.”

“More subterranean passages!” groaned Jimmie.“I never want to see or
hear of one again.Ever since that experience at the alleged temple they
will always smell of wild animals and powder smoke.”

“A few months ago,” the millionaire aviator continued, smiling
tolerantly at the boy, “ghostly lights began making their appearance in
the vicinity of the fort.American scientists who were in this part of
the country at that time made a careful investigation of the
demonstrations, and reported that the illuminations existed only in the
imaginations of the natives.And yet, it is certain that the scientists
were mistaken.”

“More bunk!” exclaimed Carl.Havens went on, “the natives kept religiously away from
the old fort, but now they seem to be willing to gather in its vicinity
and worship at the strange fires which glow from the ruined battlements.It is strange combination, and that’s a fact.”

“How long have these lights been showing?” asked Sam.“Perhaps six months,” was the reply.“I apprehend,” he said, “that you know exactly what that means.”

“I think I do!” was the reply.“Put us wise to it!” exclaimed Jimmie.“Perhaps,” smiled the millionaire, “I would better satisfy myself as to
the truth of my theory before I say anything more about it.”

“All right,” replied the boy with the air of a much-abused person, “then
I’ll go back to my blanket and sleep for the rest of my three weeks!”

“If you do,” Glenn cut in, “you’ll miss one of these venison steaks.”

Jimmie was back on his feet in a minute.“Lead me to it!” he cried.The boys still declare that that was the most satisfying meal of which
they ever partook.The broiled steaks were excellent, and the tinned
goods which had been purchased at one of the small Peruvian mining towns
on the way down, were fresh and sweet.As may be understood without extended description, the work of washing
the dishes and cleaning up after the meal was not long extended!In an hour every member of the party except Toluca was sound asleep.The
Indian had been engaged on the recommendation of an acquaintance at one
of the towns on the line of the interior railroad, and was entirely
trustworthy.He now sat just outside the circle of light, gazing with
rapt attention in the direction of the fortress which for some time past
had been known as the Mystery of the Andes.A couple of hours passed, and then Ben rolled over to where Jimmie lay
asleep, his feet toasting at the fire, his head almost entirely covered
by his blanket.“Wake up, sleepy-head!” Ben whispered.Jimmie stirred uneasily in his slumber and half opened his eyes.“Go on away!” he whispered.“But look here!” Ben insisted.“I’ve got something to tell you!”

Toluca arose and walked over to where the two boys were sitting.“Look here!” Ben went on.“Here’s Toluca now, and I’ll leave it to him
if every word I say isn’t true.He can’t talk much United States, but he
can nod when I make a hit.Can’t you, Toluca?”

The Indian nodded and Ben went on:

“Between this valley,” the boy explained, “and the face of the mountain
against which the fort sticks like a porous plaster is another valley.Through this second valley runs a ripping, roaring, foaming, mountain
stream which almost washes the face of the cliff against which the
fortress stands.This stream, you understand, is one of the original
defences, as it cuts off approach from the north.”

“I understand,” said Jimmie sleepily.“Now, the only way to reach this alleged mystery of the Andes from this
direction seems to be to sail over this valley in one of the machines
and drop down on the cliff at the rear.”

“But is there a safe landing there?” asked the boy.“Toluca says there is!”

“Has he been there?” asked Jimmie.“Of course he has!” answered Ben.“He doesn’t believe in the Inca
superstitions about ghostly lights and all that.”

“Then why don’t we take one of the machines and go over there?” demanded
Jimmie.“That would be fun!”

“That’s just what I came to talk with you about?”

“I’m game for it!” the boy asserted.“As a matter of fact,” Ben explained as the boys arose and softly
approached the _Louise_, “the only other known way of reaching the
fortress is by a long climb which occupies about two days.Of course,”
he went on, “the old fellows selected the most desirable position for
defence when they built the fort.That is,” he added, “unless we reach
it by the air route.”

“The air line,” giggled Jimmie, “is the line we’re patronizing
to-night.”

“Of course!” Ben answered.“All previous explorers, it seems, have
approached the place on foot, and by the winding ledges and paths
leading to it.Now, naturally, the people who are engineering the ghost
lights and all that sort of thing there see the fellows coming and get
the apparatus out of sight before the visitors arrive.”

“Does Mr.Havens know all about this?” asked Jimmie.“You’re dense, my son!” whispered Ben.“We’ve come all this way to light
down on the fortress in the night-time without giving warning of our
approach.That’s why we came here in the flying machines.”

“He thinks Redfern is here?” asked Jimmie.“He thinks this is a good place to look for him!” was the reply.“Then we’ll beat him to it!” Jimmie chuckled.Toluca seemed to understand what the boys were about to do and smiled
grimly as the machine lifted from the ground and whirled softly away.As
the _Louise_ left the valley, Mr.Havens and Sam turned lazily in their
blankets, doubtless disturbed by the sound of the motors, but, all being
quiet about the camp, soon composed themselves to slumber again.“Now, we’ll have to go slowly!” Ben exclaimed as the machine lifted so
that the lights of the distant mystery came into view, “for the reason
that we mustn’t make too much noise.Besides,” he went on, “we’ve got to
switch off to the east, cut a wide circle around the crags, and come
down on the old fort from the south.”

“And when we get there?” asked Jimmie.“Why,” replied Ben, “we’re going to land and sneak into the fort!That’s
what we’re going for!”

“I hope we won’t tumble into a lot of jaguars, and savages, and
half-breed Spaniards!” exclaimed Jimmie.“Oh, we’re just going to look now,” Ben answered, “and when we find out
what’s going on there we’re coming back and let Mr.We wouldn’t like to take all the glory away from him.”

Following this plan, the boys sent the machine softly away to the east,
flying without lights, and at as low altitude as possible, until they
were some distance away from the camp.In an hour the fortress showed to the north, or at least the summit
under which it lay did.“There’s the landing-place just east of that cliff,” Ben exclaimed, as
he swung still lower down.“I’ll see if I can hit it.”

The _Louise_ took kindly to the landing, and in ten minutes more the
boys were moving cautiously in the direction of the old fort, now lying
dark and silent under the starlight.It seemed to Jimmie that his heart
was in his throat as the possible solution of the mystery of the Andes
drew near!TWO RUNAWAY AVIATORS!Half an hour after the departure of the _Louise_, Sam awoke with a start
and moved over to where the millionaire aviator was sleeping.“Time to be moving!” he whispered in his ear.Havens yawned, stretched himself, and threw his blanket aside.“I don’t know,” he said with a smile, “but we’re doing wrong in taking
all the credit of this game.The boys have done good work ever since
leaving New York, and my conscience rather pricks me at the thought of
leaving them out of the closing act.”

“Well,” Sam answered, “the boys are certainly made of the right
material, if they are just a little too much inclined to take
unnecessary risks.I wouldn’t mind having them along, but, really,
there’s no knowing what one of them might do.”

“Very well,” replied Mr.Havens, “we’ll get underway in the _Ann_ and
land on top of the fortress before the occupants of that musty old
fortification know that we are in the air.”

“That’s the talk!” Sam agreed.“We’ll make a wide circuit to the west
and come up on that side of the summit which rises above the fort.I’m
certain, from what I saw this afternoon, that there is a good
landing-place there.Most of these Peruvian mountain chains,” he went
on, “are plentifully supplied with good landings, as the shelves and
ledges which lie like terraces on the crags were formerly used as
highways and trails by the people who lived here hundreds of years ago.”

“We must be very careful in getting away from the camp,” Mr.“We don’t want the boys to suspect that we are going off on a
little adventure of our own.”

“Very well,” replied the other, “I’ll creep over in the shadows and push
the _Ann_ down the valley so softly that they’ll never know what’s taken
place.If you walk down a couple of hundred yards, I’ll pick you up.Then we’ll be away without disturbing any one.”

So eager were the two to leave the camp without their intentions being
discovered by the others, that they did not stop to see whether all the
three machines were still in place.The _Ann_ stood farthest to the
east, next to the _Bertha_, and Sam crept in between the two aeroplanes
and began working the _Ann_ slowly along the grassy sward.Had he lifted his head for a moment and looked to the rear, he must have
seen that only the _Bertha_ lay behind him.Had he investigated the two
rolls of blankets lying near the fire, he would have seen that they
covered no sleeping forms!The _Ann_ moved noiselessly
down the valley to where Mr.Havens awaited her and was sent into the
air.The rattle of the motors seemed to the two men to be loud enough to
bring any one within ten miles out of a sound sleep, but they saw no
movements below, and soon passed out of sight.Wheeling sharply off to the west, they circled cliffs, gorges and grassy
valleys for an hour until they came to the western <DW72> of the mountain
which held the fortress.It will be remembered that the _Louise_ had
circled to the east.Havens said as he slowed down, “if we find a
landing-place here, even moderately secure, down we go.If I don’t, I’ll
shoot up again and land squarely on top of the fort.”

“I don’t believe it’s got any roof to land on!” smiled Sam.“Yes, it has!” replied Mr.“I’ve had the old fraud investigated.I know quite a lot about her!”

“You have had her investigated?” asked Sam, in amazement.“You know very well,” the millionaire went on, “that we have long
suspected Redfern to be hiding in this part of Peru.I can’t tell you
now how we secured all the information we possess on the subject.“However, it is enough to say that by watching the mails and sending out
messengers we have connected the rival trust company of which you have
heard me speak with mysterious correspondents in Peru.The work has been
long, but rather satisfying.”

“Why,” Sam declared, “I thought this expedition was a good deal of a
guess!I hadn’t any idea you knew so much about this country.”

“We know more about it than is generally believed,” was the answer.“Deposit box A, which was robbed on the night Ralph Hubbard was
murdered, contained, as I have said, all the information we possessed
regarding this case.When the papers were stolen I felt like giving up
the quest, but the code telegrams cheered me up a bit, especially when
they were stolen.”

“I don’t see anything cheerful in having the despatches stolen.”

“It placed the information I possessed in the hands of my enemies, of
course,” the other went on, “but at the same time it set them to
watching the points we had in a way investigated, and which they now
understood that we intended to visit.”

“I don’t quite get you!” Sam said.“You had an illustration of that at the haunted temple,” Mr.“The Redfern group knew that that place was on my list.By
some quick movement, understood at this time only by themselves, they
sent a man there to corrupt the custodian of the captive animals.Only for courage and good sense, the machines
would have been destroyed.”

“The savages unwittingly helped some!” suggested Sam.“Yes, everything seemed to work to your advantage,” Mr.“At the mines, now,” he continued, “we helped ourselves out
of the trap set for us.”

“You don’t think the miners, too, were working under instructions?”
asked Sam.“That seems impossible!”

“This rival trust company,” Mr.Havens went on, “has agents in every
part of the world.It is my
belief that not only the men of the mine we came upon, but the men of
every other mine along the Andes, were under instructions to look out
for, and, under some pretense, destroy any flying machines which made
their appearance.”

“They are nervy fighters, anyway, if this is true!” Sam said.“They certainly are, and for the very good reason that the arrest and
conviction of Redfern would place stripes on half a dozen of the
directors of the new company.As you have heard me say before, the proof
is almost positive that the money embezzled from us was placed in this
new company.Redfern is a sneak, and will confess everything to protect
himself.Hence, the interest of the trust company in keeping him out of
sight.”

“Well, I hope he won’t get out of sight after to-night,” suggested Sam.“I hope we’ll have him good and tight before morning.”

“I firmly believe that he will be taken to-night!” was the reply.The machine was now only a short distance above the ledge upon which the
aviator aimed to land.Even in the dim light they could see a level
stretch of rock, and the _Ann_ was soon resting easily within a short
distance of the fort, now hidden only by an angle of the cliff.Presently the two moved forward together and looked around the base of
the cliff.The fort lay dark and silent in the night.So far as
appearances were concerned, there had never been any lights displayed
from her battlements during the long years which had passed away since
her construction!There was only a very narrow ledge between the northern wall of the fort
and the precipice which struck straight down into the valley, three
hundred feet below.In order to reach the interior of the fortification
from the position they occupied, it would be necessary for Havens and
his companion to pass along this ledge and creep into an opening which
faced the valley.At regular intervals on the outer edge of this ledge were balanced great
boulders, placed there in prehistoric times for use in case an attempt
should be made to scale the precipice.A single one of these rocks, if
cast down at the right moment, might have annihilated an army.The two men passed along the ledge gingerly, for they understood that a
slight push would send one of these boulders crashing down.At last they
came to what seemed to be an entrance into the heart of the fortress.There were no lights in sight as they looked in.The place seemed
utterly void of human life.Sam crept in first and waited for his companion to follow.Havens
sprang at the ledge of the opening, which was some feet above the level
of the shelf on which he stood, and lifted himself by his arms.As he
did so a fragment of rock under one hand gave way and he dropped back.In saving himself he threw out both feet and reached for a crevice in
the wall.This would have been an entirely safe procedure if his feet
had not come with full force against one of the boulders overlooking the
valley.He felt the stone move under the pressure, and the next instant, with a
noise like the discharge of a battery of artillery, the great boulder
crashed down the almost perpendicular face of the precipice and was
shattered into a thousand fragments on a rock which lay at the verge of
the stream below.With a soft cry of alarm, Sam bent over the ledge which protected the
opening and seized his employer by the collar.It was quick and
desperate work then, for it was certain that every person within a
circuit of many miles had heard the fall of the boulder.Doubtless in less than a minute the occupants of the fortress—if such
there were—would be on their feet ready to contest the entrance of the
midnight visitors.“We’ve got to get into some quiet nook mighty quick,” Sam whispered in
Mr.Havens’ ear as the latter was drawn through the opening.“I guess
the ringing of that old door-bell will bring the ghost out in a hurry!”

The two crouched in an angle of the wall at the front interior of the
place and listened.Directly a light flashed out at the rear of what
seemed to the watchers to be an apartment a hundred yards in length.Then footsteps came down the stone floor and a powerful arc light filled
every crevice and angle of the great apartment with its white rays.There was no need to attempt further concealment.The two sprang
forward, reaching for their automatics, as three men with weapons
pointing towards them advanced under the light.“I guess,” Sam whispered, “that this means a show-down.”

“There’s no getting out of that!” whispered Havens.“We have reached the
end of the journey, for the man in the middle is Redfern!”




                             CHAPTER XXIV.As Redfern and his two companions advanced down the apartment, their
revolvers leveled, Havens and Sam dropped their hands away from their
automatics.“Hardly quick enough, Havens,” Redfern said, advancing with a wicked
smile on his face.“To tell you the truth, old fellow, we have been
looking for you for a couple of days!”

“I’ve been looking for you longer than that!” replied Mr.“Well,” Redfern said with a leer, “it seems that we have both met our
heart’s desire.How are your friends?”

“Sound asleep and perfectly happy,” replied the millionaire.“You mean that they were asleep when you left them.”

“Certainly!”

“Fearful that they might oversleep themselves,” Redfern went on, “I sent
my friends to awake them.I expect
to hold quite a reception to-night.”

Laying his automatic down on the floor, Havens walked deliberately to a
great easy-chair which stood not far away and sat down.No one would
judge from the manner of the man that he was not resting himself in one
of his own cosy rooms at his New York hotel.Sam was not slow in
following the example of his employer.Redfern frowned slightly at the
nonchalance of the man.“You make yourself at home!” he said.“I have a notion,” replied Mr.Havens, “that I paid for most of this
furniture.I think I have a right to use it.”

“Look here, Havens,” Redfern said, “you have no possible show of getting
out of this place alive unless you come to terms with me.”

“From the lips of any other man in the world I might believe the
statement,” Mr.“But you, Redfern, have proven yourself
to be such a consummate liar that I don’t believe a word you say.”

“Then you’re not open to compromise?”

Havens shook his head.There was now a sound of voices in what seemed to be a corridor back of
the great apartment, and in a moment Glenn and Carl were pushed into the
room, their wrists bound tightly together, their eyes blinking under the
strong electric light.Both boys were almost sobbing with rage and
shame.“They jumped on us while we were asleep!” cried Carl.Redfern went to the back of the room and looked out into the passage.“Where are the others?” he asked of some one who was not in sight.“These boys were the only ones remaining in camp,” was the reply.“Redfern,” said Havens, as coolly as if he had been sitting at his own
desk in the office of the Invincible Trust Company, “will you tell me
how you managed to get these boys here so quickly?”

“Not the slightest objection in the world,” was the reply.“There is a
secret stairway up the cliff.You took a long way to get here in that
clumsy old machine.”

“Thank you!” said Mr.“Now, if you don’t mind,” Redfern said, “we’ll introduce you to your new
quarters.They are not as luxurious as those you occupy in New York, but
I imagine they will serve your purpose until you are ready to come to
terms.”

He pointed toward the two prisoners, and the men by his side advanced
with cords in their hands.Havens extended his wrists with a smile on
his face and Sam did likewise.“You’re good sports,” cried Redfern.“It’s a pity we can’t come to
terms!”

“Never mind that!” replied Havens.“Go on with your program.”

Redfern walked back to the corridor and the prisoners heard him
dismissing some one for the night.“You may go to bed now,” he said.The two
men with me will care for the prisoners.”

The party passed down a stone corridor to the door of a room which had
evidently been used as a fortress dungeon in times past.Redfern turned
a great key in the lock and motioned the prisoners inside.At that moment he stood facing the prisoners with the two others at his
sides, all looking inquiringly into the faces of those who were taking
their defeat so easily.As Redfern swung his hand toward the open door he felt something cold
pressing against his neck.He turned about to face an automatic revolver
held in the hands of Ben Whitcomb!His two accomplices moved forward a
pace in defense, but drew back when they saw the automatic in Jimmie’s
hand within a foot of their breasts.“And now,” said Mr.Havens, as coolly as if the situation was being put
on in a New York parlor, “you three men will please step inside.”

“I’m a game loser, too!” exclaimed Redfern.In a moment the door was closed and locked and the cords were cut from
the hands of the four prisoners.“Good!” said Jimmie.“I don’t know what you fellows would do without me.I’m always getting you out of scrapes!”

What was said after that need not be repeated here.Havens thoroughly appreciated the service which had been
rendered.“The game is played to the end, boys,” he said in a moment.“The only
thing that remains to be done is to get Redfern down the secret stairway
to the machines.The others we care nothing about.”

“I know where that secret stairway is,” Ben said.“While we were
sneaking around here in the darkness, a fellow came climbing up the
stairs, grunting as though he had reached the top of the Washington
monument.”

“Where were the others put to bed?” asked Sam.“We heard Redfern dismiss
them for the night.Did you see where they went?”

“Sure!” replied Jimmie.“They’re in a room opening from this corridor a
little farther down.”

Mr.Havens took the key from the lock of the door before him and handed
it to Jimmie.“See if you can lock them in with this,” he said.The boy returned in a moment with a grin on his face.“They are locked in!” he said.“Are there any others here?” asked Havens.“They all go away at night,” he declared, “after they turn out the ghost
lights.Redfern it seems keeps only those two with him for company.Their friends will unlock them in the morning.”

Mr.Havens opened the door and called out to Redfern, who immediately
appeared in the opening.“Search his pockets and tie his hands,” the millionaire said, turning to
Sam.“You know what this means, Redfern?” he added to the prisoner.“It means Sing Sing,” was the sullen reply, “but there are plenty of
others who will keep me company.”

“That’s the idea!” cried Havens.“That’s just why I came here!I want
the officials of the new trust company more than I want you.”

“You’ll get them if I have my way about it!” was the reply.An hour later the _Ann_ and the _Louise_ dropped down in the green
valley by the camp-fire.Redfern was sullen at first, but before the
start which was made soon after sunrise he related to Havens the
complete story of his embezzlement and his accomplices.He told of the
schemes which had been resorted to by the officials of the new trust
company to keep him out of the United States, and to keep Havens from
reaching him.The Flying Machine Boys parted with Havens at Quito, the millionaire
aviator going straight to Panama with his prisoner, while the boys
camped and hunted and fished in the Andes for two weeks before returning
to New York.It had been the intention of the lads to bring Doran and some of the
others at Quito to punishment, but it was finally decided that the
victory had been so complete that they could afford to forgive their
minor enemies.They had been only pawns in the hands of a great
corporation.“The one fake thing about this whole proposition,” Jimmie said as the
boys landed in New York, sunburned and happy, “is that alleged Mystery
of the Andes!It was too commonplace—just a dynamo in a subterranean
mountain stream, and electric lights!Say,” he added, with one of his
inimitable grins, “electricity makes pretty good ghost lights, though!”

“Redfern revealed his residence by trying to conceal it!” declared Ben.Still,” he went on, “the Mystery was some
mystery for a long time!It must have cost a lot to set the stage for
it.”

The next day Mr.Havens called to visit the boys at their hotel.“While you were loafing in the mountains,” he said, after greetings had
been exchanged, “the murderer of Hubbard confessed and was sentenced to
die in the electric chair.Redfern and half a dozen directors of the new
trust company have been given long sentences at Sing Sing.”

“There are associates that ought to go, too!” Jimmie cried.“We’re not going to prosecute them,” Mr.“But this is
not to the point.The Federal Government wants you boys to undertake a
little mission for the Secret Service men.You see,” he went on, “you
boys made quite a hit in that Peruvian job.”

“Will Sam go?” asked Ben.“Sam is Sam no longer,” replied Mr.“He is now
Warren P. King, son of the banker!What do you think of that?”

“Then what was he doing playing the tramp?” asked Carl.“Oh, he quarreled with his father, and it was the old story, but it is
all smooth sailing for him now.He may go with you, but his father
naturally wants him at home for a spell.”

“Where are we to go?” asked Ben.“I’ll tell you that later,” was the reply.“Will you go?”

The boys danced around the room and declared that they were ready to
start that moment.The story of their adventures on the trip will be
found in the next volume of this series, entitled:

“The Flying Machine Boys on Secret Service; or, the Capture in the Air!”


                                THE END.------------------------------------------------------------------------




                            Transcriber’s Notes:

    Italicized phrases are presented by surrounding the text with
    _underscores_.Minor spelling, punctuation and typographic errors were corrected
    silently, except as noted below.Hyphenated words have been retained
    as they appear in the original text.On page 3, "smoldered" was left as is (rather than changed to
    "smouldered"), as both spellings were used in the time period.On page 99, "say" was added to "I don't care what you about Sam".On page 197, "good-by" was changed to "good-bye" to be consistent
    with other usage in the book.Their recital drew to this
blessed mountain thousands of pilgrims."They proclaimed that 'on Saturday, the 19th of September, 1846, Mary
manifested herself to them; and the anniversary of this glorious day is
henceforth and forever dear to Christian piety.Will not every pilgrim
who repairs to this holy mountain add his testimony to the truthfulness
of these young shepherds?Mary halted near a fountain; she communicated
to it a celestial virtue, a divine efficacy.From being intermittent,
this spring, today so celebrated, became perennial."'Every where is recounted the prodigies which she works.When the
afflicted are in despair, the infirm without remedy, they resort to the
waters of La Salette, and cures are wrought by this remedy, whose power
makes itself felt against every evil.Our diocess, so devoted to Mary,
has been no stranger to the bounty of this tender Mother.We are
about to celebrate shortly the sixth anniversary of this miraculous
apparition.NOW THAT A SANCTUARY IS TO BE RAISED on this holy mountain
to the glory of God, we have thought it right to inform you thereof."'We cannot doubt that many of you have been heard by our Lady of
La Salette; you desire to witness your gratitude to this mother of
compassion; you would gladly BRING YOUR STONE to the beautiful edifice
that is to be constructed.WE DESIRE TO FURTHER YOUR FILIAL TENDERNESS
WITH THE MEANS OF TRANSMITTING THE ALMS OF FAITH AND PIETY.For these
reasons, invoking the holy name of God, we have ordained and do ordain
as follows, viz.:

"'First, we permit the appearance of our Lady of La Salette to be
preached throughout our diocess; secondly, on Sunday, the 19th of
September next ensuing, the litanies of the Holy Virgin shall be chanted
in all the chapels and churches of the diocess, and be followed by the
benediction of the Holy Sacrament.Thirdly, THE FAITHFUL WHO MAY DESIRE
TO CONTRIBUTE TO THE ERECTION OF THE NEW SANCTUARY, MAY DEPOSIT THEIR
OFFERINGS IN THE HANDS OF THE CURE, WHO WILL TRANSMIT THEM TO US FOR THE
BISHOP OF GRENOBLE."'Our present pastoral letter shall be read and published after mass in
every parish on the Sunday after its reception."'Given at Lucon, in our Episcopal palace, under our sign-manual and the
seal of our arms, and the official counter-signature of our secretary,
the 30th of June, of the year of Grace, 1852."'X Jac-Mar Jos, "'Bishop of Lucon.'""It is not a little remarkable," says the editor of the American
Christian Union, "that whilst the Bishop of Lucon was engaged in
extolling the miracles of La Salette, the Cardinal Archbishop of Lyons,
Dr.Bonald, 'Primate of all the Gauls,' addressed a circular to all the
priests in his diocese, in which he cautions them against apocryphal
miracles!There is indubitable evidence that his grace refers to the
scandalous delusions of La Salette.He attributes the miracles in question to pecuniary speculation, which
now-a-days, he says, mingles with everything, seizes upon imaginary
facts, and profits by it at the expense of the credulous!He charges the
authors of these things with being GREEDY MEN, who aim at procuring for
themselves DISHONEST GAINS by this traffic in superstitious objects!And
he forbids the publishing from the pulpit, without leave, of any account
of a miracle, even though its authenticity should be attested by another
Bishop!His grace deserves credit for setting his face
against this miserable business, of palming off false miracles upon the
people."[Footnote: Since the above was written, we have met with the following
explanation of this modern miracle:

"A few years ago there was a great stir among 'the simple faithful' in
France, occasioned by a well-credited apparition of the Holy Virgin at
La Salette.She required the erection of a chapel in her honor at that
place, and made such promises of special indulgences to all who paid
their devotions there, that it became 'all the rage' as a place of
pilgrimage.The consequence was, that other shops for the same sort of
wares in that region lost most of their customers, and the good priests
who tended the tills were sorely impoverished.In self-defence, they,
WELL KNOWING HOW SUCH THINGS WERE GOT UP, exposed the trick.A prelate
publicly denounced the imposture, and an Abbe Deleon, priest in the
diocess of Grenoble, printed a work called 'La Salette a Valley of
Lies.'In this publication it was maintained, with proofs, that the hoax
was gotten up by a Mademoiselle de Lamerliere, a sort of half-crazy nun,
who impersonated the character of the Virgin.For the injury done to her
character by this book she sued the priest for damages to the tone of
twenty thousand francs, demanding also the infliction of the utmost
penalty of the law.The court, after a long and careful investigation,
for two days, as we learn by the Catholic Herald, disposed of the case
by declaring the miracle-working damsel non-suited, and condemning her
to pay the expenses of the prosecution."Another of Rome's marvellous stories we copy from the New York Daily
Times of July 3d, 1854.It is from the pen of a correspondent at Rome,
who, after giving an account of the ceremony performed in the church
of St.Peters at the canonization of a NEW SAINT, under the name of
Germana, relates the following particulars of her history.He says, "I
take the facts as they are related in a pamphlet account of her 'life,
virtues, and miracles,' published by authority at Rome:

"Germana Consin was born near the village of Pibrac, in the diocess
of Toulouse, in France.Maimed in one hand, and of a scrofulous
constitution, she excited the hatred of her step-mother, in whose power
her father's second marriage placed her while yet a child.This cruel
woman gave the little Germana no other bed than some vine twigs, lying
under a flight of stairs, which galled her limbs, wearied with the day's
labor.She also persuaded her husband to send the little girl to tend
sheep in the plains, exposed to all extremes of weather.Injuries and
abuse were her only welcome when she returned from her day's task to
her home.To these injuries she submitted with Christian meekness and
patience, and she derived her happiness and consolation from religious
faith.She went every day to church to hear mass, disregarding the
distance, the difficulty of the journey, and the danger in which she
left her flock.The neighboring forest was full of wolves, who devoured
great numbers from other flocks, but never touched a sheep in that of
Germana.To go to the church she was obliged to cross a little river,
which was often flooded, but she passed with dry feet; the waters
flowing away from her on either side: howbeit no one else dared to
attempt the passage.Whenever the signal sounded for the Ave Marie,
wherever she might be in conducting her sheep, even if in a ditch, or in
mud or mire, she kneeled down and offered her devotions to the Queen of
Heaven, nor were her garments wet or soiled.The little children whom
she met in the fields she instructed in the truths of religion.For the
poor she felt the tenderest charity, and robbed herself of her scanty
pittance of bread to feed them.One day her step-mother, suspecting
that she was carrying away from the house morsels of bread to be thus
distributed, incited her husband to look in her apron; he did so, BUT
FOUND IT FULL OF FLOWERS, BEAUTIFUL BUT OUT OF SEASON, INSTEAD OF BREAD.This miraculous conversion of bread into flowers formed the subject
of one of the paintings exhibited in St.Industrious, charitable, patient and forgiving, Germana lived a
memorable example of piety till she passed from earth in the twenty
second year of her age.The night of her death two holy monks were
passing, on a journey, in the neighborhood of her house.Late at night
they saw two celestial virgins robed in white on the road that led to
her habitation; a few minutes afterwards they returned leading between
them another virgin clad in pure white, and with a crown of flowers on
her head."Wonders did not cease with her death.Forty years after this event her
body was uncovered, in digging a grave for another person, and found
entirely uncorrupted--nay, the blood flowed from a wound accidentally
made in her face.Great crowds assembled to see the body so miraculously
preserved, and it was carefully re-interred within the church.There it
lay in place until the French Revolution, when it was pulled up and cast
into a ditch and covered with quick lime and water.But even this
failed to injure the body of the blessed saint.It was found two years
afterward entirely unhurt, and even the grave clothes which surrounded
it were entire, as on the day of sepulture, two hundred years before."And now in the middle of the nineteenth century, these facts are
published for the edification of believers, and his Holiness has set his
seal to their authenticity.Four miracles performed by this saint after
her death are attested by the bull of beatification, and also by Latin
inscriptions in great letters displayed at St.Peter's on the day
of this great celebration.The monks of the monastery at Bourges, in
France, prayed her to intercede on one occasion, that their store of
bread might be multiplied; on another their store of meal; on both
occasions THEIR PRAYER WAS GRANTED.The other two miracles were cures
of desperate maladies, the diseased persons having been brought to pray
over her tomb."On the splendid scarlet hangings, bearing the arms of Pius IX.and
suspended at the corners of the nave and transept, were two Latin
inscriptions, of similar purport, of one of which I give a translation:
'O Germana, raised to-day to celestial honors by Pius IX.Pontifex
Maximus, since thou knowest that Pius has wept over thy nation wandering
from God, and has exultingly rejoiced at its reconciling itself with God
little by little, he prays thee intimately united with God, do thou, for
thou canst do it, make known his wishes to God, and strengthen them, for
thou art able, with the virtue of thy prayers.'"I have been thus minute in my account of this Beatification, deeming
the facts I state of no little importance and interest, as casting light
upon the character of the Catholicism of the present day, and showing
with what matters the Spiritual and Temporal ruler of Rome is busying
himself in this year of our Lord eighteen hundred and fifty-four."Many other examples similar to the above might be given from the history
of Catholicism as it exists at the present time in the old world.But
let us turn to our own country.We need not look to France or Rome for
examples of priestly intrigue of the basest kind; and absurdities that
almost surpass belief.The following account which we copy from The
American and Foreign Christian Union of August, 1852, will serve to show
that the priests in these United States are quite as willing to impose
upon the ignorant and credulous as, their brethren in other countries.The article is from the pen of an Irish Missionary in the employ of The
American and Foreign Christian Union and is entitled,

   "A LYING WONDER.""It would seem almost incredible," says the editor of this valuable
Magazine, "that any men could be found in this country who are capable
of practising such wretched deceptions.But the account given in the
subjoined statement is too well authenticated to permit us to reject the
story as untrue, however improbable it may, at first sight, seem to be.Editor,--I give you, herein, some information respecting a lying
wonder wrought in Troy, New York, last winter, and respecting the female
who was the 'MEDIUM' of it.I have come to the conclusion that this
female is a Jesuit, after as good an examination as I have been able to
give the matter.I have been fed with these lying wonders in early life,
and in Ireland as well as in this country there are many who, for want
of knowing any better, will feed upon them in their hearts by faith and
thanksgiving.About the time this lying wonder of which I am about to
write happened, I had been talking of it in the office of Mr.Luther, of
Albany, (coal merchant), where were a number of Irish waiting for a job.One of these men declared, with many curses on his soul if what he told
was not true, that he had seen a devil cast out of a woman in his own
parish, in Ireland, by the priest.I told him it would be better for his
character's sake for him to say he heard of it, than to say he SAW it.J. W. Lockwood, a respectable merchant in Troy, New York, and son of
the late mayor, kept two or three young women as 'helps' for his lady,
last winter.The name of one is Eliza Mead, and the name of another is
Catharine Dillon, a native of the county of Limerick, Ireland.Eliza
was an upper servant, who took care of her mistress and her children.Eliza appeared to her mistress to be
a very well educated, and a very intellectual woman of 35, though she
would try to make believe she could not write, and that she was subject
to fits of insanity.There was then presumptive evidence that she wrote
a good deal, and there is now positive evidence that she could write.She used often, in the presence of Mrs.L., to take the Bible and other
books and read them, and would often say she thought the Protestants
had a better religion than the Catholics, and were a better people.L. that she had doubts about the Catholic
religion, and was inclined toward the Protestant: but now she is
sure, quite sure, that the Catholic alone is the right one, FOR IT WAS
REVEALED TO HER.On the evening of the 23d of December, 1851, Eliza and Catharine were
missing;--but I will give you Catharine's affidavit about their business
from home."I, Catharine Dillon, say, that on Tuesday, 23d December inst, about
five o'clock in the afternoon, I went with Eliza Mead to see the priest,
Mr.Eliza remained there till about six
o'clock P. M. At that time I returned home, leaving her at the priest's.At half past eight o'clock the same evening I returned to the priest's
house for Eliza, and waited there for her till about ten o'clock of the
same evening, expecting that Eliza's conference with the priest would be
ended, and that she would come home with me."During the evening there had been another besides Mr.About ten o'clock this other priest retired, as I understood.McDonnel called me, with others, into the room where Eliza was,
when he said that she (Eliza) was POSSESSED OF THE DEVIL Mr.McDonnel
then commenced interrogating the devil, asking the devil if he possessed
her.and the
answer was, "Six months and nine days."The priest then asked, "Who sent
you into her?""When she was asleep," was the answer.Lockwood had ever tempted Catharine, meaning me, and the reply
was, "Yes."Then the question was, "How many times?"And the answer was,
"Three times, by offering her drink when she was asleep?""I came home about five o'clock in the morning, greatly shocked at
what I had seen and heard, and impressed with the belief that Eliza was
possessed with the devil.I went again to the priest's on Wednesday to
find Eliza, when the priest told me that he, Mr.McDonnel, exorcised the
devil at high mass that morning in the church, and drove the devil out
of Eliza.That he, the devil, came out of Eliza, and spat at the Holy
Cross of Jesus Christ, and departed.He then told me that, as Eliza got
the devil from Mr.Lockwood, in the house where I lived, I must leave
the house immediately, and made me promise him that I would.During the
appalling scenes of Tuesday night, Mr.McDonnel went to the other priest
and called him up, but the other priest did not come to his assistance.These answers to the priest when he was asking questions of the devil,
were given in a very loud voice and sometimes with a loud scream.""Subscribed and sworn to, this 31st day of December, 1851, before me,
JOB S. OLIN, Recorder of Troy, New York."J. W. Lockwood and the Rev.McDonnel,
officiating priest at St.James
M. Warren, T. W. Blatchford, M. D., and C. N. Lockwood, on the part of
Mr.McDonnel, on the evening of the 31st December, 1851.McDonnel at first declined answering any questions, questioning Mr.Lockwood's right to ask them: He would only say that Eliza Mead came to
his house possessed, as she thought, with an evil spirit; that at first
he declined having anything to do with her, first, because he believed
her to be crazy; second, because he was at that moment otherwise
engaged; and thirdly, because she was not in his parish; but, by her
urgent appeals in the name of God to pray over her, he was at last
induced to admit her.He became satisfied that she was possessed of the
devil, or an evil spirit, by saying the appointed prayers of the church
over her; for the spirit manifested uneasiness when this was done; and
furthermore, as she was entering the church the following morning, she
was thrown into convulsions by Father Kenny's making the sign of the
cross behind her back.At high mass in the morning he exorcised the
devil, and he left her, spitting at the cross of Christ before taking
his final departure.McDonnel's repeatedly telling Catharine that she must leave
Mr.L's house immediately, for if she remained there Mr.L. would put
the devil in her, Mr.McDonnel denied saying or doing anything whatever
that was detrimental to the character of Mr.McDonnel repeatedly refused to answer the questions put to him by
Mr.L. should visit his house on
such business, as no power on earth but that of the POPE had authority
to question him on such matters.But being reminded that slanderous
reports had emanated from that very house against Mr.McDonnel, said it was all to see what kind of a man he was that brought
Mr.L. there, and if reports were exaggerated, it was nothing to him.McDonnel said that he cleared the church before casting out the
devil, and there was but one person besides himself there.That,
every word spoken in the church was in Latin, and nobody in the church
understood a word of it.L. had said the pretended answers of the devil ware made
through the medium of ventriloquism.Father Kenny, in the progress of
the interview, made two or three attempts to speak, but was prevented by
Mr.'s brother, who was present,
immediately after the interview.It was all Latin in the church, we
see; but the low Irish will not believe that the devil could understand
Latin.However, it was not all Latin at the priest's house, where
Catharine Dillon heard what she declared on oath.How slow the priest
was to admit her (Eliza Mead) in the beginning, and to believe that she
had his sable majesty in her, until it manifested uneasiness under the
cannonade of church prayers!"But you will ask, how could an educated priest, or an intelligent
woman, condescend to such diabolical impositions?I think it is
something after the way that a man gets to be a drunkard; he may not
like the taste thereof at first, but afterwards he will smack his lips
and say, 'there is nothing like whiskey,' and as their food becomes part
of their bodily substance, so are these 'lying wonders' converted into
their spiritual substance.So I think; I am, however, but a very humble
philosopher, and therefore I will use the diction of the Holy Spirit on
the matter: 'For this cause God shall send them strong delusions, that
they should believe a lie,' EVEN OF THEIR OWN MAKING, OR WHAT MAY EASILY
BE SEEN TO BE LIES OF OTHER'S GETTING, "that they all might be damned
who believed not the truth, but had pleasure in unrighteousness.'""ALBANY, June 2nd, 1852."It was said by one "that the first temptation on reading such
monstrosities as the above, is to utter a laugh of derision."But it is
with no such feeling that we place them before our readers.Rather would
we exclaim with the inspired penman, "O that my head were waters and
mine eyes a fountain of tears, that I might weep day and night" for the
deluded followers of these willfully blind leaders!Surely, no pleasure
can be found in reading or recording scenes which a pure mind can regard
only with pity and disgust.Yet we desire to prove to our readers that
the absurd threats and foolish attempts to impose upon the weak and
ignorant recorded by Sarah J. Richardson are perfectly consistent
with the general character and conduct of the Romish priests.Read
for instance, the following ridiculous story translated from Le Semeur
Canadien for October 12th, 1855.In the district of Montreal lived a Canadian widow of French extraction
who had become a Protestant.Madam V--, such was the name of this lady,
lived with her daughter, the sole fruit of a union too soon dissolved
by unsparing death.Their life, full of good works, dispelled prejudices
that the inhabitants of the vicinity--all intolerant Catholics--had
always entertained against evangelical Christians; they gained their
respect, moreover, by presenting them the example of every virtue.Two
of the neighbors of the Protestant widow--who had often heard at her
house the word of God read and commented upon by one of those ministers
who visit the scattered members of their communion--talked lately of
embracing the reformed religion.In the mean while, Miss V-- died.The
young Christian rested her hope upon the promises of the Saviour who has
said, "Believe in Christ and thou shall be saved."Her spirit flew to its Creator with the confidence of an infant who
throws himself into the arms of his father.Her last moments were not
tormented by the fear of purgatory, where every Catholic believes he
will suffer for a longer or shorter time.This death strengthened the
neighbors in the resolution they had taken to leave the Catholic church.The widow buried the remains of her daughter upon her own land, a short
distance from her house: the nearest Protestant cemetery was so far off
that she was forced to give up burying it there.Some Catholic fanatics of the vicinity assembled secretly the day after
the funeral of Miss V-- to discuss the best means for arresting the
progress that the reformed religion was making in the parish.After long
deliberation they resolved to hire a poor man to go every evening for
a whole week and groan near the grave of Miss V---.Their object was to
make the widow and neighbors believe that the young girl was damned; and
that God permitted her to show her great unhappiness by lamentations,
so that they might avoid her fate by remaining faithful to the belief of
their fathers.In any other country than Lower Canada, those who might
have employed such means would not perhaps have had an opportunity
of seeing their enterprise crowned with success; but in our country
districts, where the people believe in ghosts and bugbears, it would
almost certainly produce the desired effect.This expedient, instead of
being ridiculous, was atrocious.The employment of it could not fail to
cause Mrs V-- to suffer the most painful agonies, and her neighbors the
torments of doubt.The credulity of the French-Canadian is the work of the clergy; they
invent and relate, in order to excite their piety, the most marvellous
things.For example: the priests say that souls in purgatory desiring
alleviation come and ask masses of their relatives, either by appearing
in the same form they had in life, or by displacing the furniture and
making a noise, as long as they have not terminated the expiation of
their sins.The Catholic clergy, by supporting these fabulous doctrines
and pious lies, lead their flock into the baleful habit of believing
things the most absurd and destitute of proof.The day after Miss V--'s funeral, everybody in the parish was talking of
the woeful cries which had been heard the night before near her grave.The inhabitants of the place, imbued with fantastic ideas that their
rector had kept alive, were dupes of the artifice employed by some of
their own number.They became convinced that there is no safety outside
of the church, of which they formed a part.Seized with horror they
determined never to pass a night near the grave of the cursed one, as
they already called the young Protestant.V-- by the instinctive
effect of prejudices inculcated when she was a Catholic, was at first a
prey to deadly anxiety; but recalling the holy life of her daughter,
she no longer doubted of her being among the number of the elect.She
guessed at the cause of the noise which was heard near the grave of her
child.In order to assure herself of the justness of her suspicions,
she besought the two neighbors of whom I have already spoken, to conceal
themselves there the following night.These persons were glad of an
occasion to test the accuracy of what a curate of their acquaintance had
told them; who had asserted that a spirit free from the body could yet
manifest itself substantially to the living, as speaking without tongue,
touching without hands.They discovered the man who was paid to play the ghost; they seized him,
and in order to punish him, tied him to a tree, at the foot of which
Miss V-- was buried.The poor creature the next morning no longer acted
the soul in torment, but shouted like a person who very much wanted his
breakfast.At noon one of his friends passed by who, hearing him implore
assistance, approached and set him free.Overwhelmed with questions and
derision, the false ghost confessed he had acted thus only to obtain
the reward which had been promised him.You may easily guess that
the ridicule and reprobation turned upon those who had made him their
instrument.I will not finish this narrative without telling the reader that the
curate of the place appeared much incensed at what his parishioners
had done.I am glad to be able to suppose that he condemns rather
than encourages such conduct.A Protestant friend of mine who does not
entertain the same respect for the Roman clergy that I do, advances the
opinion that the displeasure of the curate was not on account of the
culpable attempt of some of his flock but on account of its failure.However, I must add, on my reputation as a faithful narrator, that
nothing has yet happened to confirm his assertion.ERASTE D'ORSONNENS.CRUELTY OF ROMANISTS.To show that the Romish priests have in all ages, and do still, inflict
upon their victims cruelties quite as severe as anything described in
the foregoing pages, and that such cruelties are sanctioned by their
code of laws, we have only to turn to the authentic history of the past
and present transactions of the high functionaries of Rome.About the year 1356, Nicholas Eymeric, inquisitor-general of Arragon,
collected from the civil and canon laws all that related to the
punishment of heretics, and formed the "Directory of Inquisitors," the
first and indeed the fundamental code, which has been followed ever
since, without any essential variation."It exhibits the practice and
theory of the Inquisition at the time of its sanction by the approbation
of Gregory 13th, in 1587, which theory, under some necessary variations
of practice, still remains unchanged."From this "Directory," transcribed by the Rev.Rule of London, in
1852, we extract a few sentences in relation to torture."Torture is inflicted on one who confesses the principal fact, but
varies as to circumstances.Also on one who is reputed to be a heretic,
but against whom there is only one witness of the fact.In this case
common rumor is one indication of guilt, and the direct evidence is
another, making altogether but semi-plenar proof.Also, when there is no witness, but vehement suspicion.Also when there is no common report of heresy, but only one witness
who has heard or seen something in him contrary to the faith.Any two
indications of heresy will justify the use of torture.If you sentence
to torture, give him a written notice in the form prescribed; but other
means be tried first.Nor is this an infallible means for bringing out
the truth.Weak-hearted men, impatient at the first pain, will confess
crimes they never committed, and criminate others at the same time.Bold
and strong ones will bear the most severe torments.Those who have been
on the rack before bear it with more courage, for they know how to adapt
their limbs to it, and they resist powerfully.Others, by enchantments,
seem to be insensible, and would rather die than confess.These wretches
user for incantations, certain passages from the Psalms of David, or
other parts of Scripture, which they write on virgin parchment in an
extravagant way, mixing them with names of unknown angels, with circles
and strange letters, which they wear upon their person.'I know not,'
says Pena, 'how this witchcraft can be remedied, but it will be well to
strip the criminals naked, and search them narrowly, before laying them
upon the rack.'While the tormentor is getting ready, let the inquisitor
and other grave men make fresh attempts to obtain a confession of the
truth.Let the tormentors TERRIFY HIM BY ALL MEANS, TO FRIGHTEN HIM INTO
CONFESSION.And after he is stripped, let the inquisitor take him aside,
and make a last effort.When this has failed, let him be put to the
question by torture, beginning with interrogation on lesser points,
and advancing to greater.If he stands out, let them show him other
instruments of torture, and threaten that he shall suffer them also.If
he will not confess; the torture may be continued on the second or third
day; but as it is not to be repeated, those successive applications must
be called CONTINUATION.And if, after all, he does not confess, he may
be set at liberty."Rules are laid down for the punishment of those who do confess.commanded the secular judges to put heretics to torture; but that
gave occasion to scandalous publicity, and now inquisitors are empowered
to do it, and, in case of irregularity (THAT IS, IF THE PERSON DIES IN
THEIR HANDS), TO ABSOLVE EACH OTHER.And although nobles were exempt
from torture, and in some kingdoms, as Arragon, it was not used in civil
tribunals, the inquisitors were nevertheless authorized to torture,
without restriction, persons of all classes.And here we digress from Eymeric and Pena, in order to describe, from
additional authority, of what this torture consisted, and probably,
still consists, in Italy.Limborch collects this information from Juan
de Rojas, inquisitor at Valencia."There were five degrees of torment as some counted (Eymeric included),
or according to others, three.First, there was terror, including
the threatenings of the inquisitor, leading to the place of torture,
stripping, and binding; the stripping of their clothing, both men and
women, with the substitution of a single tight garment, to cover part
of the person--being an outrage of every feeling of decency--and the
binding, often as distressing as the torture itself.Secondly came the
stretching on the rack, and questions attendant.Thirdly a more severe
shock, by the tension and sodden relaxation of the cord, which is
sometimes given once, but often twice, thrice, or yet more frequently.""Isaac Orobio, a Jewish physician, related to Limborch the manner in
which he had himself been tortured, when thrown into the inquisition at
Seville, on the delation of a Moorish servant, whom he had punished for
theft, and of another person similarly offended."After having been in the prison of the inquisition for full three
years, examined a few times, but constantly refusing to confess the
things laid to his charge, he was at length brought out of the cell,
and led through tortuous passages to the place of torment.He found himself in a subterranean chamber, rather spacious,
arched over, and hung with black cloth.The whole conclave was lighted
by candles in sconces on the walls.At one end there was a separate
chamber, wherein were an inquisitor and his notary seated at a table.The place, gloomy, intent, and everywhere terrible, seemed to be the
very home of death.Hither he was brought, and the inquisitor again
exhorted him to tell the truth before the torture should begin.On his
answering that he had already told the truth, the inquisitor gravely
protested that he was bringing himself to the torture by his own
obstinacy; and that if he should suffer loss of blood, or even expire,
during the question, the holy office would be blameless.Having thus
spoken, the inquisitor left him in the hands of the tormentors, who
stripped him, and compressed his body so tightly in a pair of linen
drawers, that he could no longer draw breath, and must have died, had
they not suddenly relaxed the pressure; but with recovered breathing
came pain unutterably exquisite.The anguish being past, they repeated a
monition to confess the truth, before the torture, as they said, should
begin; and the same was afterwards repeated at each interval."As Orobio persisted in denial, they bound his thumbs so tightly with
small cords that the blood burst from under the nails, and they were
swelled excessively.Then they made him stand against the wall on
a small stool, passed cords around various parts of his body, but
principally around the arms and legs, and carried them over iron
pulleys in the ceiling.The tormentor then pulled the cords with all his
strength, applying his feet to the wall, and giving the weight of his
body to increase the purchase.With these ligatures his arms and legs,
fingers and toes, were so wrung and swollen that he felt as if fire were
devouring them.In the midst of this torment the man kicked down the
stool which had supported his feet, so that he hung upon the cords
with his whole weight, which suddenly increased their tension, and
gave indescribable aggravation to his pain.An instrument resembling a small ladder, consisting of two
parallel pieces of wood, and five transverse pieces, with the anterior
edges sharpened, was placed before him, so that when the tormentor
struck it heavily, he received the stroke five times multiplied on each
shin bone, producing pain that was absolutely intolerable, and under
which he fainted.But no sooner was he revived than they inflicted a new
torture.The tormentor tied other cords around his wrists, and having
his own shoulders covered with leather, that they might not be chafed,
passed round them the rope which was to draw the cords, set his feet
against the wall, threw himself back with all his force, and the cords
cut through to the bones.This he did thrice, each time changing the
position of the cords, leaving a small distance between the successive
wounds; but it happened that in pulling the second time they slipped
into the first wounds, and caused such a gush of blood that Orobio
seemed to be bleeding to death."A physician and surgeon, who were in waiting as usual, to give their
opinion as to the safety or danger of continuing those operations,
that the inquisitors might not commit an irregularity by murdering the
patient, were called in.Being friends of the sufferer, they gave their
opinion that he had strength enough remaining to bear more.By this
means they saved him from a SUSPENSION of the torture, which would have
been followed by a repetition, on his recovery, under the pretext of
CONTINUATION.The cords were therefore pulled a third time, and this
ended the torture.He was dressed in his own clothes, carried back to
prison, and, after about seventy days, when the wounds were healed,
condemned as one SUSPECTED of Judaism.They could not say CONVICTED,
because he had not confessed; but they sentenced him to wear the
sambenito [Footnote: This sambenito (Suco bendito or blessed sack,) is
a garment (or kind of scapulary according to some writers,) worn by
penitents of the least criminal class in the procession of an Auto de
Fe, (a solemn ceremony held by the Inquisition for the punishment of
heretics,) but sometimes worn as a punishment at other times, that the
condemned one might be marked by his neighbors, and ever bear a signal
that would affright and scare by the greatness of the punishment and
disgrace; a plan, salutary it may be, but very grievous to the offender.It was made of yellow cloth, with a St.Andrew's cross upon it, of
red.A rope was sometimes put around the neck as an additional mark of
infamy."Those who were condemned to be burnt were distinguished by a habit of
the same form, called Zamarra, but instead of the red cross were
painted flames and devils, and sometimes an ugly portrait of the heretic
himself,--a head, with flames under it.Those who had been sentenced to
the stake, but indulged with commutation of the penalty, had inverted
flames painted on the livery, and this was called fuego revuelto,
"inverted fire.""Upon the head of the condemned was also placed a conical paper cap,
about three feet high, slightly resembling a mitre, called corona or
crown.This was painted with flames and devils in like manner with the
dress.]or penitential habit for two years, and then be banished for
life from Seville."INQUISITION OF GOA--IMPRISONMENT OF M. DELLON, 1673."M. Dellon a French traveller, spending some time at Damaun, on the
north-western coast of Hindostan, incurred the jealousy of the governor
and a black priest, in regard to a lady, as he is pleased to call
her, whom they both admired.He had expressed himself rather freely
concerning some of the grosser superstitions of Romanism, and thus
afforded the priest, who was also secretary of the Inquisition, an
occasion of proceeding against him as a heretic.The priest and the
governor united in a representation to the chief inquisitor at Goa,
which procured an order for his arrest.Like all other persons whom it
pleased the inquisitors or their servants to arrest, in any part of the
Portuguese dominions beyond the Cape of Good Hope, he was thrown into
prison with a promiscuous crowd of delinquents, the place and treatment
being of the worst kind, even according to the colonial barbarism of
the seventeenth century.To describe his sufferings there, is not to our
purpose, inasmuch as all prisoners fared alike, many of them perishing
from starvation and disease.Many offenders against the Inquisition
were there at the same time,--some accused of Judaism, others, of
Paganism--in which sorcery and witchcraft were included--and others of
immorality.In a field so wide and so fruitful, the "scrutators" of the
faith could not fail to gather abundantly.After an incarceration of at
least four months, he and his fellow-sufferers were shipped off for
the ecclesiastical metropolis of India, all of them being in irons.The
vessel put into Bacaim, and the prisoners were transferred, for some
days, to the prison of that town, where a large number of persons were
kept in custody, under charge of the commissary of the holy office,
until a vessel should arrive to carry them to Goa."In due time they were again at sea, and a fair wind wafted their
fleet into that port after a voyage of seven days.Until they could
be deposited in the cells of the Inquisition with the accustomed
formalities, the Archbishop of Goa threw open HIS prison for their
reception, which prison, being ecclesiastical, may be deemed worthy of
description."The most filthy," says Dellon, "the most dark, and the most horrible
that I ever saw; and I doubt whether a more shocking and horrible prison
can be found anywhere.It is a kind of cave wherein there is no day seen
but by a very little hole; the most subtle rays of the sun cannot enter
into it, and there is never any true light in it.* * *

"On the 16th of January 1674, at eight o'clock in the morning, an
officer came with orders to take the prisoners to "the holy house."With
considerable difficulty M. Dellon dragged his iron-loaded limbs thither.They helped him to ascend the stairs at the great entrance, and in the
hall, smiths were waiting to take off the irons from all the prisoners.One by one, they were summoned to audience.Dellon, who was called the
first, crossed the hall, passed through an ante-chamber, and entered
a room, called by the Portuguese "board of the holy office," where the
grand inquisitor of the Indies sat at one end of a very large table, on
an elevated floor in the middle of the chamber.He was a secular priest
about forty years of age, in full vigor--a man who could do his work
with energy.At one end of the room was a large crucifix, reaching from
the floor almost to the ceiling, and near it, sat a notary on a folding
stool.At the opposite end, and near the inquisitor, Dellon was placed,
and, hoping to soften his judge, fell on his knees before him.But the
inquisitor commanded him to rise, asked whether he knew the reason of
his arrest, and advised him to declare it at large, as that was the only
way to obtain a speedy release.Dellon caught at the hope of release,
began to tell his tale, mixed with tears and protestations, again
fell at the feet of Don Francisco Delgado Ematos, the inquisitor, and
implored his favorable attention.Don Francisco told him, very coolly,
that he had other business on hand, and, nothing moved, rang a silver
bell.The alcayde entered, led the prisoner out into a gallery, opened,
and searched his trunk, stripped him of every valuable, wrote an
inventory, assured him that all should be safely kept, and then led him
to a cell about ten feet square, and left him there, shut up in utter
solitude.In the evening they brought him his first meal, which he ate
heartily, and slept a little during the night following.Next morning he
learnt that he could have no part of his property, not even a breviary
was, in that place, allowed to a priest, for they had no form of
religion there, and for that reason he could not have a book.His hair
was cropped close; and therefore "he did not need a comb.""Thus began his acquaintance with the holy house, which he describes
as "great and magnificent," on one side of the great space before the
church of St Catharine.There were three gates in front; and, it was
by the central, or largest, that the prisoners entered, and mounted a
stately flight of steps, leading into the great hall.The side gates
provided entrance to spacious ranges of apartments, belonging to the
inquisitors.Behind the principal building, was another, very spacious,
two stories high, and consisting of double rows of cells, opening into
galleries that ran from end to end.The cells on the ground-floor were
very small, without any aperture from without for light or air.Those of
the upper story were vaulted, white-washed, had a small strongly grated
window, without glass, and higher than the tallest man could reach.Towards the gallery every cell was shut with two doors, one on the
inside, the other one outside of the wall.The inner door folded, was
grated at the bottom, opened towards the top for the admission of food
and was made fast with very strong bolts.The outer door was not so
thick, had no window, but was left open from six o'clock every morning
until eleven--a necessary arrangement in that climate, unless it were
intended to destroy life by suffocation."To each prisoner was given as earthen pot with water wherewith to wash,
another full of water to drink, with a cup; a broom, a mat whereon
to lie, and a large basin with a cover, changed every fourth day.The
prisoners had three meals a day; and their health so far as food could
contribute to it in such a place, was cared for in the provision of
a wholesome, but spare diet.Physicians were at hand to render all
necessary assistance to the sick, as were confessors, ready to wait
upon the dying; but they gave no viaticum, performed no unction, said
no mass.The place was under an impenetrable interdict.If any died,
and that many did die is beyond question, his death was unknown to all
without; he was buried within the walls without any sacred ceremony;
and if, after death, he was found to have died in heresy, his bones were
taken up at the next Auto, to be burned.Unless there happened to be
an unusual number of prisoners, each one was alone in his own cell.He
might not speak, nor groan, nor sob aloud, nor sigh.[Footnote: Limborch
relates that on one occasion, a poor prisoner was heard to cough; the
jailer of the Inquisition instantly repaired to him, and warned him to
forbear, as the slightest noise was not tolerated in that house.The
poor man replied that it was not in his power to forbear; a second time
they admonished him to desist; and when again, unable to do otherwise,
he repeated the offence, they stripped him naked, and cruelly beat him.This increased his cough, for which they beat him so often, that at last
he died through pain and anguish of the stripes he had received.]His
breathing might be audible when the guard listened at the grating, but
nothing more.Four guards were stationed in each long gallery, open,
indeed, at each end, but awfully silent, as if it were the passage of
a catacomb.If, however, he wanted anything, he might tap at the inner
door, when a jailer would come to hear the request, and would report to
the alcayde, but was not permitted to answer.If one of the victims, in
despair, or pain, or delirium, attempted to pronounce a prayer, even to
God, or dared to utter a cry, the jailers would run to the cell, rush
in, and beat him cruelly, for terror to the rest.Once in two months the
inquisitor, with a secretary and an interpreter, visited the prisons,
and asked each prisoner if he wanted anything, if his meat was regularly
brought, and if he had any complaint against the jailers.His want after
all lay at the mercy of the merciless.His complaint, if uttered, would
bring down vengeance, rather than gain redress.But in this visitation
the holy office professed mercy with much formality, and the
inquisitorial secretary collected notes which aided in the crimination,
or in the murder of their victims."The officers of Goa were;--the inquisidor mor or grand inquisitor, who
was always a secular priest; the second inquisitor, Dominican friar;
several deputies, who came, when called for, to assist the inquisitors
at trials, but never entered without such a summons; qualifiers,
as usual, to examine books and writings, but never to witness an
examination of the living, or be present at any act of the kind; a
fiscal; a procurator; advocates, so called, for the accused; notaries
and familiars.The authority of this tribunal was absolute in Goa.There does not appear to have been anything peculiar in the manner of
examining and torturing at Goa where the practice coincided with that of
Portugal and Spain."The personal narrative of Dellon affords a distinct exemplification of
the sufferings of the prisoners.He had been told that, when he desired
an audience, he had only to call a jailer, and ask it, when it would be
allowed him.But, notwithstanding many tears and entreaties, he could
not obtain one until fifteen days had passed away.Then came the alcayde
and one of his guards.This alcayde walked first out of the cell; Dellon
uncovered and shorn, and with legs and feet bare, followed him; the
guard walked behind.The alcayde just entered the place of audience,
made a profound reverence, stepped back and allowed his charge to enter.The door closed, and Dellon remained alone with the inquisitor and
secretary.He knelt; but Don Fernando sternly bade him to sit on a
bench, placed there for the use of the culprits.Near him, on a table,
lay a missal, on which they made him lay his hand, and swear to keep
secrecy, and tell them the truth.They asked if he knew the cause of his
imprisonment, and whether he was resolved to confess it.He told
them all he could recollect of unguarded sayings at Damaun, either in
argument or conversation, without ever, that he knew, contradicting,
directly or indirectly, any article of faith.He had, at some time
dropped an offensive word concerning the Inquisition, but so light a
word, that it did not occur to his remembrance.Don Fernando told him he
had done well in ACCUSING HIMSELF so willingly, and exhorted him in the
name of Jesus Christ, to complete his self accusation fully, to the end
that he might experience the goodness and mercy which were used in
that tribunal towards those who showed true repentance by a sincere
and UNFORCED confession.The secretary read aloud the confession and
exhortation, Dellon signed it, Don Fernando rang a silver bell, the
alcayde walked in, and, in a few moments, the disappointed victim was
again in his dungeon."At the end of another fortnight, and without having asked for it, he
was again taken to audience.After a repetition of the former questions,
he was asked his name, surname, baptism, confirmation, place of abode,
in what parish?They made him kneel,
and make the sign of the cross, repeat the Pater Noster, Hail Mary,
creed, commandments of God, commandments of the church, and Salve
Begins.He did it all very cleverly, and even to their satisfaction;
but the grand inquisitor exhorted him, by the tender mercies of our Lord
Jesus Christ, to confess without delay, and sent him to the cell again.They required him to do what was impossible--to
confess more, after he had acknowledged ALL.In despair, he tried to
starve himself to death; 'but they compelled him to take food.'Day and
night he wept, and at length betook himself to prayer, imploring pity
of the 'blessed Virgin,' whom he imagined to be, of all beings, the most
merciful, and the most ready to give him help."At the end of a month, he succeeded in obtaining another audience, and
added to his former confessions what he had remembered, for the first
time, touching the Inquisition.But they told him that that was not what
they wanted, and sent him back again.In a frenzy
of despair he determined to commit suicide, if possible.Feigning
sickness, be obtained a physician who treated him for a fever, and
ordered him to be bled.Never calmed by any treatment of the physician,
blood-letting was repeated often, and each time he untied the bandage,
when left alone, hoping to die from loss of blood, but death fled from
him.A humane Franciscan came to confess him, and, hearing his tale of
misery, gave him kind words, asked permission to divulge his attempt
at self-destruction to the inquisitor, procured him a mitigation of
solitude by the presence of a fellow-prisoner, a <DW64>, accused of
magic; but, after five months, the <DW64> was removed, and his mind,
broken with suffering, could no longer bear up under the aggravated
load.By an effort of desperate ingenuity he almost succeeded in
committing suicide, and a jailer found him weltering in his blood and
insensible.Having restored him by cordials, and bound up his wounds,
they carried him into the presence of the inquisitor once more; where he
lay on the floor, being unable to sit, heard bitter reproaches, had his
limbs confined in irons, and was thus carried back to a punishment that
seemed more terrible than death.In fetters he became so furious, that
they found it necessary to take them off, and, from that time, his
examinations assumed another character, as he defended his positions
with citations from the Council of Trent, and with some passages of
scripture, which he explained in the most Romish sense, discovering
a depth of ignorance in Don Fernando that was truly surprising.That
'grand Inquisitor,' had never heard the passage which Dellon quoted to
prove the doctrine of baptismal regeneration, 'Except a man be born
of water and of the Spirit, he cannot enter into the kingdom of God.'Neither did he know anything of that famous passage in the twenty-fifth
session of the Council of Trent, which declares that images are only to
be reverenced on account of the persons whom they represent.He
called for a Bible, and for the acts of the council, and was evidently
surprised when he found them where Dellon told him they might be seen."The time for a general auto drew near.During the months of November
and December, 1675, he heard every morning the cries of persons under
torture, and afterwards saw many of them, both men and women, lame and
distorted by the rack.On Sunday January 11th, 1676, he was surprised
by the jailer refusing to receive his linen to be washed--Sunday being
washing-day in the 'holy house.'While perplexing himself to think
what that could mean, the cathedral bells rang for vespers, and then,
contrary to custom, rang again for matins.He could only account for
that second novelty by supposing that an auto would be celebrated the
next day.They brought him supper, which he refused, and, contrary to
their wont at all other times, they did not insist on his taking it, but
carried it away.Assured that those were all portents of the horrible
catastrophe, and reflecting on often-repeated threats in the audience
chamber that he should be burnt, he gave himself up to death, and
overwhelmed with sorrow, fell asleep a little before midnight."Scarcely had he fallen asleep when the alcayde and guards entered the
cell, with great noise, bringing a lamp, for the first time since his
imprisonment that they had allowed a lamp to shine there.The alcayde,
laying down a suit of clothes, bade him put them on, and be ready to go
out when he came again.At two o'clock in the morning they returned, and
he issued from the cell, clad in a black vest and trowsers, striped with
white, and his feet bare.About two hundred prisoners, of whom he
was one, were made to sit on the floor, along the sides of a spacious
gallery, all in the same black livery, and just visible by the
gleaming of a few lamps.A large company of women were also ranged in a
neighboring gallery in like manner.But they were all motionless, and
no one knew his doom.Every eye was fixed, and each one seemed benumbed
with misery."A third company Dellon perceived in a room not far distant, but they
were walking about, and some appeared to have long habits.Those were
persons condemned to be delivered to the secular arm, and the long
habits distinguished confessors busily collecting confessions in order
to commute that penalty for some other scarcely less dreadful.At four
o'clock, servants of the house came, with guards, and gave bread and
figs to those who would accept the refreshment.One of the guards gave
Dellon some hope of life by advising him to take what was offered,
which he had refused to do.'Take your bread,' said the man, 'and if you
cannot eat it now, put it in your pocket; you will be certainly hungry
before you return.'This gave hope, that he should not end the day at
the stake, but come back to undergo penance."A little before sunrise, the great bell of the cathedral tolled, and
its sound soon aroused the city of Goa.The people ran into the streets,
lining the chief thoroughfares, and crowding every place whence a view
could be had of the procession.Day broke, and Dellon saw the faces
of his fellow-prisoners, most of whom were Indians.He could only
distinguish, by their complexion, about twelve Europeans.Every
countenance exhibited shame, fear, grief, or an appalling blackness of
apathy, AS IF DIRE SUFFERING IN THE LIGHTLESS DUNGEONS UNDERNEATH HAD
BEREFT THEM OF INTELLECT.The company soon began to move, but slowly,
as one by one the alcayde led them towards the door of the great hall,
where the grand inquisitor sat, and his secretary called the name of
each as he came, and the name of a sponsor, who also presented himself
from among a crowd of the bettermost inhabitants of Goa, assembled there
for that service.'The general of the Portuguese ships in the Indies'
had the honor of placing himself beside our Frenchman.As soon as the
procession was formed, it marched off in the usual order."First, the Dominicans, honored with everlasting precedence on all such
occasions, led the way.Singing-boys also preceded, chanting a litany.The banner of the Inquisition was intrusted to their hands.After the
banner walked the penitents--a penitent and a sponsor, two and two.A
cross bearer brought up the train, carrying a crucifix aloft, turned
towards them, in token of pity; and, on looking along the line, you
might have seen another priest going before the penitents with a
crucifix turned backwards, inviting their devotions.They to whom the
Inquisition no longer afforded mercy, walked behind the penitents, and
could only see an averted crucifix.These were condemned to be burnt
alive at the stake!On this occasion there were but two of this class,
but sometimes a large number were sentenced to this horrible death, and
presented to the spectator a most pitiable spectacle.Many of them
bore upon their persons the marks of starvation, torture, terror, and
heart-rending grief.Some faces were bathed in tears, while others
came forth with a smile of conquest on the countenance and words of
triumphant faith bursting from the lips.These, however, were known as
dogmatizers, and were generally gagged, the month being filled with a
piece of wood kept in by a strong leather band fastened behind the head,
and the arms tied together behind the back.Two armed familiars walked
or rode beside each of these, and two ecclesiastics, or some other
clerks or regulars, also attended.After these, the images of heretics
who had escaped were carried aloft, to be thrown into the flames; and
porters came last, tagging under the weight of boxes containing the
disinterred bodies on which the execution of the church had fallen, and
which were also to be burnt."Poor Dellon went barefoot, like the rest, through the streets of Goa,
rough with little flint stones scattered about, and sorely were his feet
wounded during an hour's march up and down the principal streets.Weary,
covered with shame and confusion, the long train of culprits entered
the church of St.Francis, where preparation was made for the auto, the
climate of India not permitting a celebration of that solemnity
under the burning sky.They sat with their sponsors, in the galleries
prepared, sambenitos, grey zamarras with painted flames and devils,
corozas, tapers, and all the other paraphernalia of an auto, made up a
woeful spectacle.The inquisitor and other personages having taken their
seats of state, the provincial of the Augustinians mounted the pulpit
and delivered the sermon.Dellon preserved but one note of it.The
preacher compared the Inquisition to Noah's ark, which received all
sorts of beasts WILD, but sent them out TAME.The appearance of hundreds
who had been inmates of that ark certainly justified the figure."After the sermon, two readers went up, one after the other, into the
same pulpit, and, between them, they read the processes and pronounced
the sentences, the person standing before them, with the alcayde, and
holding a lighted taper in his hand.Dellon, in turn, heard the cause
of his long-suffering.He had maintained the invalidity of baptismus
flaminis, or desire to be baptised, when there is no one to administer
the rite of baptism by water.He had said that images ought not to be
adored, and that an ivory crucifix was a piece of ivory.He had spoken
contemptuously of the Inquisition.And, above all, he had an ill
intention.His punishment was to be confiscation of his property,
banishment from India, and five years' service in the galleys in
Portugal, with penance, as the inquisitors might enjoin.As all the
prisoners were excommunicate, the inquisitor, after the sentence had
been pronounced, put on his alb and stole, walked into the middle of the
church, and absolved them all at once.Dellon's sponsor, who would not
even answer him before, when he spoke, now embraced him, called him
brother, and gave him a pinch of snuff, in token of reconciliation."But there were two persons, a man and a woman, for whom the church had
no more that they could do; and these, with four dead bodies, and the
effigies of the dead, were taken to be burnt on the Campo Santo Lazaro,
on the river side, the place appointed for that purpose, that the
viceroy might see justice done on the heretics, as he surveyed the
execution from his palace-windows."The remainder of Dellon's history adds nothing to what we have already
heard of the Inquisition.He was taken to Lisbon, and, after working in
a gang of convicts for some time, was released on the intercession of
some friends in France with the Portuguese government.With regard to
his despair, and attempts to commit suicide, when in the holy house,
we may observe that, as he states, suicide was very frequent there.The contrast of his disconsolate impatience with the resignation and
constancy of Christian confessors in similar circumstances, is obvious.As a striking illustration of the difference between those who suffer
without a consciousness of divine favor, and those who rejoice with joy
unspeakable and full of glory, we would refer the reader to that noble
band of martyrs who suffered death at the stake, at the Auto held in
Seville, on Sunday, September 24, 1559.At that time twenty-one
were burnt, followed by one effigy, and eighteen penitents, who were
released."One of the former was Don Juan Gonzales, Presbyter of Seville, an
eminent preacher.With admirable constancy he refused to make any
declaration, in spite of the severe torture, saying that he had not
followed any erroneous opinions, but that he had drawn his faith from
the holy Scriptures; and for this faith he pleaded to his tormentors in
the words of inspiration.He maintained that he was not a heretic, but
a Christian, and absolutely refused to divulge anything that would bring
his brethren into trouble.Two sisters of his were also brought out to
this Auto, and displayed equal faith.They would confess Christ, they
said, and suffer with their brother, whom they revered as a wise and
holy man.They were all tied to stakes on the quemadero, a piece of
pavement, without the walls of the city, devoted to the single use of
burning human victims.Sometimes this quemadero [Footnote: Llorente, the
historian of the Spanish Inquisition, says, "So many persons were to be
put to death by fire, the governor of Seville caused a permanent raised
platform of masonry to be constructed outside the city, which has
lasted to our time (until the French revolution) retaining its name of
Quemadero, or burning-place, and at the four corners four large hollow
stalutes of limestone, within which they used to place the impenitent
alive, that they might die by slow fires."]was a raised platform of
stone, adorned with pillows or surrounded with statues, to distinguish
and beautify the spot.Just as the fire was lit, the gag, which had
hitherto silenced Don Juan, was removed, and as the flames burst from
the fagots, he said to his sisters, 'Let us sing, Deus laudem meam ne
tacueris.'And they sang together, while burning, 'Hold not thy peace,
O God of my praise; for the mouth of the wicked and the mouth of the
deceitful are opened against me: they have spoken against me with a
lying tongue.'Thus they died in the faith of Christ, and of his holy
gospel."INQUISITION OF GOA, CONCLUDED.The Inquisition of Goa continued its Autos for a century after the
affair of Dellon.Claudius Buchanan visited
that city, and had been unexpectedly invited by Joseph a Doloribus,
second and most active inquisitor, to lodge with him during his
visit.Buchanan found himself, heretic,
schismatic, and rebel as he was, politely entertained by so dread a
personage.Regarding his English visitor merely as a literary man, or
professing to do so, Friar Joseph, himself well educated, seemed to
enjoy his company, and was unreservedly communicative on every subject
not pertaining to his own vocation.When that subject was first
introduced by an apparently incidental question, he did not hesitate
to return the desired information, telling Dr.Buchanan that the
establishment was nearly as extensive as in former times.In the library
of the chief inquisitor he saw a register containing the names of all
the officers, who still were numerous.On the second evening after his arrival, the doctor was surprised to see
his host come from his apartment, clothed in black robes from head to
foot, instead of white, the usual color of his order (Augustinian).He
said that he was going to sit on the tribunal of the holy office, and it
transpired that, so far from his "august office" not occupying much of
his time, he had to sit there three or four days every week.After his
return, in the evening, the doctor put Dellon's book into his hand,
asking him if he had ever seen it.He had never seen it before, and,
after reading aloud and slowly, "Relation de l'Inquisition de Goa,"
began to peruse it with eagerness.Buchanan employed himself in writing, Friar Joseph devoured
page after page; but as the narrative proceeded, betrayed evident
symptoms of uneasiness.He then turned to the middle, looked at the end,
skimmed over the table of contents, fixed on its principal passages,
and at one place exclaimed, in his broad Italian accent, "Mendacium!The doctor requested him to mark the passages that were
untrue, proposed to discuss them afterwards, and said he had other books
on the subject.The mention of other books startled him; he looked up
anxiously at some books on the table, and then gave himself up to the
perusal of Dellon's "Relation," until bedtime.Even then, he asked
permission to take it to his chamber.The doctor had fallen asleep under the roof of the inquisitor's convent,
confident, under God, in the protection at that time guaranteed to
a British subject, his servants sleeping in the gallery outside
the chamber-door.About midnight, he was waked by loud shrieks and
expressions of terror from some one in the gallery.In the first moment
of surprise, he concluded it must be the alguazils of the holy office
seizing his servants to carry them to the Inquisition.But, on going
out, he saw the servants standing at the door, and the person who
had caused the alarm, a boy of about fourteen, at a little distance,
surrounded by some of the priests, who had come out of their cells on
hearing the noise.The boy said he had seen a spectre; and it was a
considerable time before the agitations of his body and voice
subsided.Next morning at breakfast, the inquisitor apologized for
the disturbance, and said the boy's alarm proceeded from a phantasma
animi,--phantom of the imagination.Phantoms might well haunt such a place.As to
Dellon's book, the inquisitor acknowledged that the descriptions
were just; but complained that he had misjudged the motives of the
inquisitors, and written uncharitably of Holy Church.Their conversation
grew earnest, and the inquisitor was anxious to impress his visitor with
the idea that the Inquisition had undergone a change in some respects,
and that its terrors were mitigated.Buchanan plainly
requested to see the Inquisition, that he might judge for himself as to
the humanity shown to the inmates,--according to the inquisitor,--and
gave, as a reason why he should be satisfied, his interest in the
affairs of India, on which he had written, and his purpose to write on
them again, in which case he could scarcely be silent concerning the
Inquisition.The countenance of his host fell; but, after some further
observations, he reluctantly promised to comply.Next morning, after
breakfast, Joseph a Doloribus went to dress for the holy office, and
soon returned in his black robes.He said he would go half an hour
before the usual time, for the purpose of showing him the Inquisition.The doctor fancied he looked more severe than usual, and that his
attendants were not as civil as before.But the truth was, that the
midnight scene still haunted him.They had proceeded in their palanquins
to the holy house, distant about a quarter of a mile from the convent,
and the inquisitor said as they were ascending the steps of the great
entrance, that he hoped the doctor would be satisfied with a transient
view of the Inquisition, and would retire when he should desire him to
do so.The doctor followed with tolerable confidence, towards the
great hall aforementioned, where they were met by several well-dressed
persons, familiars, as it afterwards appeared, who bowed very low to the
inquisitor, and looked with surprise at the stranger.Buchanan paced
the hall slowly, and in thoughtful silence; the inquisitor thoughtful
too, silent and embarrassed.A multitude of victims seemed to haunt the
place, and the doctor could not refrain from breaking silence."Would
not the Holy Church wish, in her mercy, to have those souls back again,
that she might allow them a little further probation?"The inquisitor
answered nothing, but beckoned him to go with him to a door at one end
of the hall.By that door he conducted him to some small rooms, and
thence, to the spacious apartments of the chief inquisitor.Having
surveyed those, he brought him back again to the great hall, and seemed
anxious that the troublesome visitor should depart; but only the very
words of Dr.B. can adequately describe the close of this extraordinary
interview.""Now, father," said I, "lead me to the dungeons below: I want to see the
captives.""No," said he, "that cannot be."I now began to suspect that
it had been in the mind of the inquisitor, from the beginning, to show
me only a certain part of the Inquisition, in the hope of satisfying
my inquiries in a general way.I urged him with earnestness; but he
steadily resisted, and seemed offended, or, rather, agitated, by my
importunity.I intimated to him plainly, that the only way to do justice
to his own assertion and arguments regarding the present state of the
Inquisition, was to show me the prisons and the captives.I should
then describe only what I saw; but now the subject was left in awful
obscurity."Lead me down," said I, "to the inner building, and let me
pass through the two hundred dungeons, ten feet square, described by
your former captives.Let me count the number of your present captives,
and converse with them.I WANT, TO SEE IF THERE BE ANY SUBJECTS OF THE
BRITISH GOVERNMENT, TO WHOM WE OWE PROTECTION.I want to ask how long
they have been there, how long it is since they have seen the light
of the sun, and whether they ever expect to see it again.Show me the
chamber of torture, and declare what modes of execution or punishment
are now practiced inside the walls of the Inquisition, in lieu of the
public Auto de Fe.If, after all that has passed, father, you resist
this reasonable request, I should be justified in believing that you are
afraid of exposing the real state of the Inquisition in India."To these observations the inquisitor made no reply; but seemed impatient
that I should withdraw."My good father," said I; "I am about to take
my leave of you, and to thank you for your hospitable attentions; and I
wish to preserve on my mind a favorable sentiment of your kindness and
candor.You cannot, you say, show me the captives and the dungeons; be
pleased, then, merely to answer this question, for I shall believe
your word: how many prisoners are there now below in the cells of the
Inquisition?"He replied, "That is a question which I cannot answer."On his pronouncing these words, I retired hastily towards the door, and
wished him farewell.We shook hands with as much cordiality as we could,
at the moment, assume; and both of us, I believe, were sorry that our
parting took place with a clouded countenance.Buchanan, feeling as if he could
not refrain from endeavoring to get another and perhaps a nearer view,
returned to avail himself of the pretext afforded by a promise from
the chief inquisitor, of a letter to one of the British residents at
Travancore, in answer to one which he had brought him from that officer.The inquisitors he expected to find within, in the "board of the holy
office."The door-keepers surveyed him doubtfully, but allowed him to
pass.He entered the great hall, went up directly to the lofty crucifix
described by Dellon, sat down on a form, wrote some notes, and then
desired an attendant to carry in his name to the inquisitor.As he was
walking across the hall, he saw a poor woman sitting by the wall.She
clasped her hands, and looked at him imploringly.The sight chilled
his spirits; and as he was asking the attendants the cause of her
apprehension,--for she was awaiting trial,--Joseph a Doloribus came, in
answer to his message, and was about to complain of the intrusion,
when he parried the complaint by asking for the letter from the chief
inquisitor.He promised to send it after him, and conducted him to the
door.As they passed the poor woman, the doctor pointed to her, and said
with emphasis, "Behold, father, another victim of the Holy Inquisition."The other answered nothing; they bowed, and separated without a word.Buchanan published his "Christian Researches in Asia," in the
year 1812, the Inquisition still existed at Goa; but the establishment
of constitutional government in Portugal, put an end to it throughout
the whole Portuguese dominions.APPENDIX V.

INQUISITION AT MACERATA, ITALY.I never pretended that it was for the sake of religion alone, that I
left Italy, On the contrary, I have often declared, that, had I never
belonged to the Inquisition, I should have gone on, as most Roman
Catholics do, without ever questioning the truth of the religion I was
brought up in, or thinking of any other.But the unheard of cruelties
of that hellish tribunal shocked me beyond all expression, and rendered
me,--as I was obliged, by my office of Counsellor, to be accessary to
them,--one of the most unhappy men upon earth.I therefore began
to think of resigning my office; but as I had on several occasions,
betrayed some weakness as they termed it, that is, some compassion and
humanity, and had upon that account been reprimanded by the Inquisitor,
I was well apprized that my resignation would be ascribed by him to
my disapproving the proceedings of the holy tribunal.And indeed, to
nothing else could it be ascribed, as a place at that board was a
sure way to preferment, and attended with great privileges, and a
considerable salary.Being, therefore, sensible how dangerous a thing it
would be to give the least ground for any suspicions of that nature,
and no longer able to bear the sight of the many barbarities practised
almost daily within those walls, nor the reproaches of my conscience for
being accessary to them, I determined, after many restless nights, and
much deliberation, to withdraw at the same time from the Inquisition,
and from Italy.In this mind, and in the most unhappy and tormenting
situation that can possibly be imagined, I continued near a
twelve-month, not able to prevail on myself to execute the resolution
I had taken on account of the many dangers which I foresaw would
inevitably attend it, and the dreadful consequences of my failing in
the attempt.But, being in the mean time ordered by the Inquisitor, to
apprehend a person with whom I had lived in the greatest intimacy and
friendship, the part I was obliged to act on that occasion, left so deep
an impression on my mind as soon prevailed over all my fears, and made
me determine to put into execution, at all events, and without delay,
the design I had formed.Of that transaction I shall give a particular
account, as it will show in a very strong light the nature and
proceedings of that horrid court.The person whom the Inquisitor appointed me to apprehend was Count
Vicenzo della Torre, descended from an illustrious family in Germany,
and possessed of a very considerable estate in the territory of
Macerata.He was one of my very particular friends, and had lately
married the daughter of Signior Constantini, of Fermo, a lady no less
famous for her good sense than her beauty.With her family too, I had
contracted an intimate acquaintance, while Professor of Rhetoric in
Fermo, and had often attended the Count during his courtship, from
Macerata to Fermo, but fifteen miles distant.I therefore lived with
both in the greatest friendship and intimacy; and the Count was the
only person that lived with me, after I was made Counsellor of the
Inquisition, upon the same free footing as he had done till that time.My other friends had grown shy of me, and gave me plainly to understand
that they no longer cared for my company.As this unhappy young gentleman was one day walking with another, he met
two Capuchin friars, and turning to his companion, when they had passed,
"what fools," said he, "are these, to think they shall gain heaven by
wearing sackcloth and going barefoot!Fools indeed, if they think so,
or that there is any merit in tormenting one's self; they might as well
live as we do, and they would get to heaven quite as soon."Who informed
against him, whether the friars, his companion, or somebody else, I
know not; for the inquisitors never tell the names of informers to the
Counsellors, nor the names of the witnesses, lest they should except
against them.It is to be observed, that all who hear any proposition
that appears to them repugnant to, or inconsistent with the doctrines of
holy mother church, are bound to reveal it to the Inquisitor, and also
to discover the person by whom it was uttered; and, in this affair no
regard is to be had to any ties, however sacred.The brother being bound
to accuse the brother, the father the son, the son the father, the wife
her husband, and the husband his wife; and all bound on pain of eternal
damnation, and of being treated as accomplices if they do not denounce
in a certain time; and no confessor can absolve a person who has heard
anything said in jest or in earnest, against the belief or practice
of the church, till that person has informed the Inquisitor of it, and
given him all the intelligence he can concerning the person by whom it
was spoken.Whoever it was that informed against my unhappy friend, whether the
friars, his companion, or somebody else who might have overheard him,
the Inquisitor acquainted the board one night, (for to be less observed,
they commonly meet, out of Rome, in the night) that the above mentioned
propositions had been advanced, and advanced gravely, at the sight of
two poor Capuchins; that the evidence was unexceptionable; and that
they were therefore met to determine the quality of the proposition, and
proceed against the delinquent.There are in each Inquisition twelve Counsellors, viz: four Divines,
four Canonists, and four Civilians.It is chiefly the province of the
divines to determine the quality of the proposition, whether it is
heretical, or only savors of heresy; whether it is blasphemous and
injurious to God and His saints or only erroneous, rash, schismatical,
or offensive to pious ears.The part of the proposition, "Fools!if
they think there is any merit in tormenting one's self," was judged and
declared heretical, as openly contradicting the doctrine and practice of
holy mother church recommending austerities as highly meritorious.The
Inquisitor observed, on this occasion, that by the proposition, "Fools
indeed" &c., were taxing with folly, not only the holy fathers, who had
all to a man practised great austerities, but St.Paul himself as the
Inquisitor understood it, adding that the practice of whipping one's
self, so much recommended by all the founders of religious orders, was
borrowed of the great apostle of the gentiles.The proposition being declared heretical, it was unanimously agreed by
the board that the person who had uttered it should be apprehended, and
proceeded against agreeably to the laws of the Inquisition.And now the
person was named; for, till it is determined whether the accused person
should or should not be apprehended, his name is kept concealed from
the counsellors, lest they should be biased, says the directory, in
his favor, or against him.For, in many instances, they keep up an
appearance of justice and equity, at the same time that, in truth, they
act in direct opposition to all the known laws of justice and equity.No words can express the concern and astonishment it gave me to hear,
on such an occasion, the name of a friend for whom I had the greatest
esteem and regard.The Inquisitor was apprised of it; and to give me an
opportunity of practising what he had so often recommended to me, viz.conquering nature with the assistance of grace, he appointed me to
apprehend the criminal, as he styled him, and to lodge him safe, before
daylight, in the prison of the holy inquisition.I offered to excuse
myself, but with the greatest submission, from being in any way
concerned in the execution of that order; an order, I said, which I
entirely approved of, but only wished it might be put in execution by
some other person; for your lordship knows, I said, the connection.But
the Inquisitor shocked at the word, said with a stern look and angry
tone of voice, "What!There is your guard," (pointing to the Sbirri or bailiffs in waiting)
"let the criminal be secured in St.Luke's cell," (one of the worst,)
"before three in the morning."He then withdrew, and as he passed me
said, "Thus, nature is conquered."I had betrayed some weakness or sense
of humanity, not long before, in fainting away while I attended the
torture of one who was racked with the utmost barbarity, and I had on
that occasion been reprimanded by the Inquisitor for suffering nature
to get the better of grace; it being an inexcusable weakness, as he
observed, to be in any degree affected with the suffering of the body,
however great, when afflicted, as they ever are in the Holy Inquisition,
for the good of the soul.And it was, I presume, to make trial of the
effect of that reprimand, that the execution of this cruel order was
committed to me.As I could by no possible means decline it, I summoned
all my resolution, after passing an hour by myself, I may say in the
agonies of death, and set out a little after two in the morning for my
unhappy friend's house, attended by a notary of the Inquisition, and six
armed Sbirri.We arrived at the house by different ways and knocking
at the door, a maid-servant looked out of the window, and asked who
knocked."The Holy Inquisition," was the answer, and at the same time
she was ordered to awake nobody, but to come down directly and open the
door, on pain of excommunication.At these words, the servant hastened
down, half naked as she was, and having with much ado, in her great
fright, opened the door, she conducted us as she was ordered to her
master's chamber.She often looked very earnestly at me, as she knew me,
and showed a great desire to speak with me; but of her I durst take no
kind of notice.I entered the bed-chamber with the notary, followed by
the Sbirri, when the lady awakening at the noise, and seeing the bed
surrounded by armed men, screamed out aloud and continued screaming as
out of her senses, till one of the Sbirri, provoked at the noise gave
her a blow on the forehead that made the blood flow, and she swooned
away.I rebuked the fellow severely, and ordered him to be whipped as
soon as I returned to the Inquisition.In the mean time, the husband awakening, and seeing me with my
attendants, cried out, in the utmost surprise, "MR.He said no
more, nor could I for some time utter a single word; and it was with
much ado that, in the end I so far mastered my grief as to be able
to let my unfortunate friend know that he was a prisoner of the Holy
Inquisition."Alas I what have I
done?He said many affecting things;
but as I knew it was not in my power to befriend him, I had not the
courage to look him in the face, but turning my back to him, withdrew,
while he dressed, to a corner of the room, to give vent to my grief.The
notary stood by, quite unaffected.Indeed, to be void of all humanity,
to be able to behold one's fellow-creatures groaning under the most
exquisite torments cruelty can invent, without being in the least
affected with their sufferings, is one of the chief qualifications of
an inquisitor, and what all who belong to the Inquisition must strive to
attain to.It often happens, at that infernal tribunal, that while the
unhappy, and probably innocent, person is crying out in their presence
on the rack, and begging by all that is sacred for one moment's relief,
in a manner one would think no human heart could withstand, it often
happens, I say, that the inquisitor and the rest of his infamous crew,
quite unaffected with his complaints, and deaf to his groans, to his
tears and entreaties, are entertaining one another with the news of the
town; nay, sometimes they even insult, with unheard of barbarity, the
unhappy wretches in the height of their torment.He was no sooner dressed than I
ordered the Bargello, or head of the Sbirri, to tie his hands with
a cord behind his back, as is practised on such occasions without
distinction of persons; no more regard being paid to men of the first
rank, when charged with heresy, than to the meanest offender.Heresy
dissolves all friendship; so that I durst no longer look upon the man
with whom I had lived in the greatest friendship and intimacy as my
friend, or show him, on that account, the least regard or indulgence.As we left the chamber, the countess, who had been conveyed out of the
room, met us, and screaming out in the most pitiful manner upon seeing
her husband with his hands tied behind his back like a thief or robber,
flew to embrace him, and hanging on his neck, begged, with a flood of
tears, we would be so merciful as to put an end to her life, that she
might have the satisfaction--the only satisfaction she wished for in
this world, of dying in the bosom of the man from whom she had vowed
never to part.The count, overwhelmed with grief, did not utter a single
word.I could not find it in my heart, nor was I in a condition to
interpose; and indeed a scene of greater distress was never beheld by
human eyes.However, I gave a signal to the notary to part them, which
he did accordingly, quite unconcerned; but the countess fell into a
swoon, and the count was meantime carried down stairs, and out of the
house, amid the loud lamentations and sighs of his servants, on all
sides, for he was a man remarkable for the sweetness of his temper, and
his kindness to all around him.Being arrived at the Inquisition, I consigned my prisoner into the
hands of a gaoler, a lay brother of St.Dominic, who shut him up in the
dungeon above-mentioned, and delivered the key to me.I lay that night
at the palace of the Inquisition, where every counsellor has a room, and
returned next morning the key to the inquisitor, telling him that his
order had been punctually complied with.The inquisitor had been already
informed of my conduct by the notary, and therefore, upon my delivering
the key to him, he said, "You have acted like one who is at least
desirous to overcome, with the assistance of grace, the inclinations of
nature;" that is, like one who is desirous, by the assistance of grace,
to metamorphose himself from a human creature into a brute or a devil.In the Inquisition, every prisoner is kept the first week of his
imprisonment in a dark narrow dungeon, so low that he cannot stand
upright in it, without seeing anybody but the gaoler, who brings him,
EVERY OTHER DAY, his portion of bread and water, the only food allowed
him.This is done, they say, to tame him, and render him, thus weakened,
more sensible of the torture, and less able to endure it.At the end of
the week, he is brought in the night before the board to be examined;
and on that occasion my poor friend appeared so altered, in a week's
time, that, had it not been for his dress, I should not have known him.And indeed no wonder; a change of condition so sudden and unexpected;
the unworthy and barbarous treatment he had already met with; the
apprehension of what he might and probably should suffer; and perhaps,
more than anything else, the distressed and forlorn condition of his
once happy wife, whom he tenderly loved, whose company he had enjoyed
only six months, could be attended with no other effect.Being asked, according to custom, whether he had any enemies, and
desired to name them, he answered, that he bore enmity to no man, and he
hoped no man bore enmity to him.For, as in the Inquisition the person
accused is not told of the charge brought against him, nor of the person
by whom it is brought, the inquisitor asks him if he has any enemies,
and desires him to name them.If he names the informer, all further
proceedings are stopped until the informer is examined anew; and if the
information is found to proceed from ill-will and no collateral proof
can be produced, the prisoner is discharged.Of this piece of justice
they frequently boast, at the same time that they admit, both as
informers and witnesses, persons of the most infamous characters,
and such as are excluded by all other courts.In the next place, the
prisoner is ordered to swear that he will declare the truth, and conceal
nothing from the holy tribunal, concerning himself or others, that he
knows and the holy tribunal desires to know.He is then interrogated for
what crime he has been apprehended and imprisoned by the Holy Court of
the Inquisition, of all courts the most equitable, the most cautious,
the most merciful.To that interrogatory the count answered, with a
faint and trembling voice, that he was not conscious to himself of any
crime, cognizable by the Holy Court, nor indeed by any other; that he
believed and ever had believed whatever holy mother church believed or
required him to believe.He had, it seems quite forgotten what he
had unthinkingly said at the sight of the two friars.The inquisitor,
therefore, finding that he did not remember or would not own his crime,
after many deceitful interrogatories, and promises which he never
intended to fulfil, ordered him back to his dungeon, and allowing him
another week, as is customary in such cases, to recollect himself, told
him that if he could not in that time prevail upon himself to declare
the truth, agreeably to his oath, means would be found of forcing it
from him; and he must expect no mercy.At the end of the week he was brought again before the infernal
tribunal; and being asked the same questions, returned the same answers,
adding, that if he had done or said anything amiss, unwittingly or
ignorantly, he was ready to own it, provided the least hint of it were
given him by any there present, which he entreated them most earnestly
to do.He often looked at me, and seemed to expect--which gave me such
concern as no words can express--that I should say something in his
favor.But I was not allowed to speak on this occasion, nor were any of
the counsellors; and had I been allowed to speak, I durst not have said
anything in his favor; the advocate appointed by the Inquisition, and
commonly styled, "The Devil's Advocate," being the only person that
is suffered to speak for the prisoner.The advocate belongs to the
Inquisition, receives a salary from the Inquisition, and is bound by an
oath to abandon the defence of the prisoner, if he undertakes it, or not
to undertake it, if he finds it cannot be defended agreeably to the laws
of the Holy Inquisition; go that the whole is mere sham and imposition.I have heard this advocate, on other occasions, allege something in
favor of the person accused; but on this occasion he declared that he
had nothing to offer in defence of the criminal.In the Inquisition, the person accused is always supposed guilty, unless
he has named the accuser among his enemies.And he is put to the torture
if he does not plead guilty, and own the crime that is laid to his
charge, without being so much as told what it is; whereas, in all other
courts, where tortures are used, the charge is declared to the party
accused before he is tortured; nor are they ever inflicted without
a credible evidence of his guilt.But in the Inquisition, a man is
frequently tortured upon the deposition of a person whose evidence would
be admitted in no other court, and in all cases without hearing the
charge.As my unfortunate friend continued to maintain his innocence,
not recollecting what he had said, he was, agreeably to the laws of
the Inquisition, put to the torture.He had scarcely borne it twenty
minutes, crying out the whole time, "Jesus Maria!"when his voice failed
him at once, and he fainted away.He was then supported, as he hung
by his arms, by two of the Sbirri, whose province it is to manage the
torture, till he returned to himself.He still continued to declare that
he could not recollect his having said or done anything contrary to the
Catholic faith, and earnestly begged they would let him know with what
he was charged, being ready to own it if it was true.The Inquisitor was then so gracious as to put him in mind of what he had
said on seeing the two Capuchins.The reason why they so long conceal
from the party accused the crime he is charged with, is, that if he
should be conscious to himself of his having ever said or done anything
contrary to the faith, which he is not charged with, he may discover
that too, imagining it to be the very crime he is accused of.After a
short pause, the poor gentleman owned that he had said something to that
purpose; but, as he had said it with no evil intention, he had never
more thought of it, from that time to the present.He added, but with a
voice so faint, as scarce could be heard, that for his rashness he was
willing to undergo what punishment soever the holy tribunal should,
think fit to impose on him; and he again fainted away.Being eased for
a while of his torment, and returned to himself, he was interrogated by
the promoter fiscal (whose business it is to accuse and to prosecute, as
neither the informer nor the witnesses, are ever to appear,) concerning
his intention.For in the Inquisition, it is not enough for the party
accused to confess the fact, he must declare whether his intention was
heretical or not; and many, to redeem themselves from the torments
they, can no longer endure, own their intention was heretical, though
it really was not.My poor friend often told us, he was ready to say
whatever he pleased, but as he never directly acknowledged his intention
to have been heretical, as is required by the rules of the court, he
was kept on the torture still, quite overcome with the violence of the
anguish, he was ready to expire.Being taken down, he was carried quite
senseless, back to his dungeon, and there, on the third day, death put
an end to his sufferings.The Inquisitor wrote a note to his widow, to
desire her to pray for the soul of her late husband, and warn her not
to complain of the holy Inquisition, as capable of any injustice or
cruelty.The estate was confiscated to the Inquisition, and a small
jointure allowed out of it to the widow.As they had only been
married six months, and some part of the fortune was not yet paid, the
inquisitor sent an order to the Constantini family, at Ferno, to pay the
holy office, and without delay, what they owed to the late Count Della
Torre.The effects of heretics are all ipso facto confiscated to the
Inquisition from the very day, not of their conviction, but of their
crime, so that all donations made after that time are void; and whatever
they may have given, is claimed by the Inquisition, into whatsoever
hands it may have passed; even the fortunes they have given to their
daughters in marriage, have been declared to belong to, and are claimed
by the Inquisition; nor can it be doubted, that the desire of those
confiscations is one great cause of the injustice and cruelty of that
court.The death of the unhappy Count Della Torre was soon publicly known; but
no man cared to speak of it, not even his nearest relations, nor so much
as to mention his name, lest anything should inadvertently escape them
that might be construed into a disapprobation of the proceedings of the
most holy tribunal; so great is the awe all men live in of that jealous
and merciless court.The deep impression that the death of my unhappy friend, the barbarous
and inhuman treatment he had met with, and the part I had been obliged
to act in so affecting a tragedy, made on my mind, got at once the
better of my fears, so that, forgetting in a manner the dangers I had
till then so much apprehended, I resolved, without further delay to put
in execution the design I had formed, of quitting the Inquisition, and
bidding forever adieu to Italy.To execute that design with some safety,
I proposed to beg leave to visit the Virgin of Loretto, but thirteen
miles distant, and to pass a week there; but in the mean time, to make
the best of my way out of the reach of the Inquisition.Having, therefore, after many conflicts with myself, asked leave to
visit the neighboring sanctuary, and obtained it, I set out on horseback
the very next morning, leaving, as I proposed to keep the horse, his
full value with the owner.I took the road to Loretto, but turned out
of it a short distance from Recanati, after a most violent struggle with
myself, the attempt appearing to me at that juncture, quite desperate
and impracticable; and the dreadful doom reserved for me should I
miscarry, presented itself to my mind in the strongest light.But the
reflection that I had it in my power to avoid being taken alive, and
a persuasion that a man in my situation might lawfully avoid it, when
every other means failed him, at the expense of his life, revived my
staggered resolution; and all my fears ceasing at once, I steered my
course, leaving Loretto behind me, to Rocca Contrada, to Fossonbrone, to
Calvi in the dukedom of Urbino, and from thence through the Romagna into
Bolognese, keeping the by-roads, and at a good distance from the cities
through which the high road passed.Thus I advanced very slowly, travelling in very bad roads, and often in
places where there was no road at all, to avoid, not only the cities,
and towns, but also the villages.In the mean time I seldom had any
other support but some coarse provisions, and a very small quantity
even, of them, that the poor shepherds, the countrymen or wood cleavers
I met in those unfrequented by-places, could spare me.My horse fared
not much better than myself; but, in choosing my sleeping-place I
consulted his convenience as much as my own, passing the night where I
found most shelter for myself, and most grass for him.In Italy there
are very few solitary farm-houses or cottages, the country people all
living together in villages; and I thought it far safer to lie where I
could be in any way sheltered, than to venture into any of them.Thus I
spent seventeen days before I got out of the ecclesiastical state; and
I very narrowly escaped being taken or murdered, on the very borders of
that state; it happened thus.I had passed two whole days without any kind of subsistence whatever,
meeting with no one in the by-roads that could supply me with any, and
fearing to come near any house, as I was not far from the borders of the
dominions of the Pope.I thought I should be able to hold out till I
got into the Modanese, where I believed I should be in less danger than
while I remained in the papal dominions.But finding myself, about noon
of the third day, extremely weak and ready to faint away, I came into
the high road that leads from Bologna to Florence, a few miles distant
from the former city, and alighted at a post house, that stood quite
by itself.Having asked the woman of the house whether she had any
victuals, and being told that she had, I went to open the door of the
only room in the house, (that being a place where gentlemen only stop
to change horses,) and saw to my great surprise, a placard pasted on it,
with a minute description of my whole person, sad a promise of a reward
of 900 crowns (about 200 pounds English money) for delivering me up
alive to the Inquisition, being a fugitive from that holy tribunal,
and of 600 crowns for my head.By the same placard, all persons were
forbidden, on pain of the greater excommunication, to receive or
harbor, entertain, conceal, or screen me, or to be in any way aiding, or
assisting me to make my escape.This greatly alarmed me, as the reader
may well imagine; but I was still more frightened, when entering the
room, I saw two fellows drinking there, who, fixing their eyes on me as
soon as I went in, continued looking at me very steadfastly.I strove,
by wiping my face and blowing my nose, and by looking out of the window,
to prevent their having a full view of my features.But, one of
them saying, "The gentleman seems afraid to be seen," I put up my
handkerchief, and turning to the fellow, said boldly, "What do you mean
you rascal?Look at me; am I afraid to be seen?"He said nothing, but
looking again steadfastly at me, and nodding his head, went out, and
his companion immediately followed him.I watched them, and seeing them,
with two or three more, in close conference, and no doubt consulting
whether they should apprehend me or not, I walked that moment into
the stable, mounted my horse unobserved by them, and while they were
deliberating in an orchard behind the house, rode off at full speed, and
in a few hours got into the Modanese, where I refreshed both with food
and rest, as I was there in no immediate danger, my horse and myself.I
was indeed surprised to find that those fellows did not pursue me, nor
can I in any other way account for it, but by supposing, what is not
improbable, that, as they were strangers as well as myself, and had all
the appearance of banditti or ruffians flying out of the dominions of
the Pope, the woman of the house did not care to trust them with her
horses.From the Modanese I continued my journey, more leisurely through
the Parmesan, the Milanese, and part of the Venetian territory, to
Chiavenna, subject to the Grisons, who abhor the very name of the
Inquisition, and are ever ready to receive and protect all who, flying
from it, take refuge, as many Italians do, in their dominions.Still
I carefully concealed who I was, and whence I came, for, though no
Inquisition prevails among the Swiss, yet the Pope's nuncio who resides
at Lucerne, (a popish canton through which I was to pass,) might have
persuaded the magistrate to stop me as an apostate and deserter from the
order.Having rested a few days at Chiavenna, I resumed my journey quite
refreshed, continuing it through the country of the Grisons, and the two
small cantons of Ury and Underwald, to the canton of Lucerne.There
I missed my way, as I was quite unacquainted with the country, and
discovering a city at a distance, was advancing to it, but slowly, as I
knew not where I was, when a countryman whom I met, informed me that the
city before me was Lucerne.Upon that intelligence, I turned out of the
road as soon as the countryman was out of sight, and that night I
passed with a good natured shepherd in his cottage, who supplied me with
sheep's milk, and my horse with plenty of grass.I set out early next
morning, making my way westward, as I knew that Berne lay west of
Lucerne.But, after a few miles, the country proved very mountainous,
and having travelled the whole day over mountains I was overtaken among
them by night.As I was looking out for a place where I might shelter
myself during the night, against the snow and rain, (for it both snowed
and rained,) I perceived a light at a distance, and making towards it,
I got into a kind of foot-path, but so narrow and rugged that I was
obliged to lead my horse, and feel my way with one foot, (having no
light to direct me,) before I durst move the other.Thus, with much
difficulty I reached the place where the light was, a poor little
cottage, and knocking at the door, was asked by a man within who I was,
and what I wanted?I answered that I was a stranger and had lost my way.exclaimed the man, "There is no way here to lose."I
then asked him what canton I was in?and upon his answering that I was
in the canton of Berne, I cried out transported with joy, "I thank God
that I am."The good man answered, "And so do I."I then told him who I
was, and that I was going to Berne but had quite lost myself by keeping
out of all the high roads, to avoid falling into the hands of those
who sought my destruction.He thereupon opened the door, received and
entertained me with all the hospitality his poverty would admit of;
regaled me with sour crout and some new laid eggs, the only provision
he had, and clean straw with a kind of rug for a bed, he having no other
for himself and wife.The good woman expressed as much good nature as
her husband, and said many kind things in the Swiss language, which
her husband interpreted to me in the Italian; for that language he well
understood, having learned it in his youth, while servant in a public
home on the borders of Italy, where both languages are spoken.I never
passed a more comfortable night; and no sooner did I begin to stir in
the morning, than the good man and his wife both came to know how
I rested; and, wishing they had been able to accommodate me better,
obliged me to breakfast on two eggs, which providence, they said, had
sent them for that purpose.I took leave of the wife, who seemed most
sincerely to wish me a good journey.As for the husband, he would by all
means attend me to the high road leading to Berne; which road he said
was but two miles distant from that place.But he insisted on my first
going back with him, to see the way I had come the night before; the
only way, he said, I could have possibly come from the neighboring
canton of Lucerne.I saw it, and shuddered at the danger I had escaped;
for I found I had walked and led my horse a good way along a very narrow
path on the brink of a very dangerous precipice.The man made so
many pertinent and pious remarks on the occasion, as both charmed and
surprised me.I no less admired his disinterestedness than his piety;
for, upon our parting, after he had attended me till I was out of all
danger of losing my way, I could by no means prevail upon him to accept
of any reward for his trouble.He had the satisfaction, he said, of
having relieved me in the greatest distress, which was in itself a
sufficient reward, and he wished for no other.Having at length got safe into French Flanders, I there repaired to the
college of the Scotch Jesuits at Douay, and discovering myself to the
rector, I acquainted him with the cause of my sudden departure from
Italy, and begged him to give notice of my arrival, as well as the
motives of my flight to Michael Angelo Tambuvini, general of the order,
and my very particular friend.The rector wrote as I desired him, to the general, and he, taking no
notice of my flight, in his answer, (for he could not disapprove, and
did not think it safe to approve of it,) ordered me to continue where I
was till further notice.I arrived at Douay early in May, and continued
there till the beginning of July, when the rector received a second
letter from the general, acquainting him that he had been commanded by
the congregation of the Inquisition, to order me, wherever I was, back
into Italy; to promise me, in their name, full pardon and forgiveness if
I obeyed, but if I did not obey, to treat me as an apostate.He added,
that the same order had been transmitted, soon after my flight, to
the nuncios at the different Roman Catholic courts; and he, therefore,
advised me to consult my own safety without further delay.Upon the receipt of the general's kind letter, the rector was of opinion
that I should repair by all means, and without loss of time, to England,
not only as the safest asylum I could fly to, in my present situation,
but as a place where I should soon recover my native language, and be
usefully employed, either there or in Scotland.The place being thus
agreed on, and it being at the same time settled between the rector and
me, that I should set out the very next morning, I solemnly promised, at
his request and desire, to take no kind of notice, after my arrival
in England, of his having been in any way privy to my flight, or the
general's letter to him.This promise I have faithfully and honorably
observed; and should have thought myself guilty of the blackest
ingratitude if I had not observed it, being sensible that, had it been
known at Rome, that, either the rector or general had been accessary to
my flight, THE INQUISITION WOULD HAVE RESENTED IT SEVERELY IN BOTH.For
although a Jesuit in France, in Flanders, or in Germany, is out of the
reach of the Inquisition, the general is not; and the high tribunal not
only have it in their power to punish the general himself, who resides
constantly at Rome, but may oblige him to inflict what punishment they
please on any of the order obnoxious to them.The rector went that very night out of town, and in his absence, but not
without his privity, I took one of the horses of the college, early
next morning, as if I were going for a change of air, being somewhat
indisposed, to pass a few days at Lisle; but steering a different
course, I reached Aire that night and Calais the next day.I was there
in no danger of being stopped and seized at the prosecution of the
Inquisition, a tribunal no less abhorred in France than in England.But being informed that the nuncios at the different courts had been
ordered, soon after my flight, to cause me to be apprehended in Roman
Catholic countries through which I must pass, as an apostate and
deserter from the order, I was under no small apprehension of being
discovered and apprehended as such even at Calais.No sooner, therefore,
did I alight at the Inn, than I went down to the quay, and there as I
was very little acquainted with the sea, and thought the passage much
shorter than it is, I endeavored to engage some fishermen to carry me
that very night, in one of their small vessels, over to England.This
alarmed the guards of the harbor, and I should have been certainly
apprehended as a person guilty, or suspected of some great crime,
fleeing from justice, had not Lord Baltimore, whom I had the good luck
to meet in the Inn, informed me of my danger, and pitying my condition,
attended me that moment, with all his company, to the port, and conveyed
me immediately on board his yacht.There I lay that night, leaving every
thing I had but the clothes on my back, in the Inn; and the next day his
Lordship set me ashore at Dover, from whence I came in the common stage
to London.In the year 1706, the Inquisition at Arragon was broken up by the French
troops, under the command of the Duke of Orleans.The Holy Inquisitors
were driven from their beautiful house, and in answer to their indignant
remonstrance were told that the king wanted the house to quarter his
troops in, and they were therefore compelled to leave it immediately.The doors of the prisons were then thrown open, and among the four
hundred prisoners who were set at liberty were sixty young women, very
beautiful in person, and clad in the richest attire.Anthony Gavin, formerly one of the Roman Catholic priests of Saragossa,
Spain, relates (in a book published by him after his conversion) that
when travelling in France he met one of those women in the inn at
Rotchfort; the son of the inn-keeper, formerly an officer in the French
army, having married her for her great beauty and superior intelligence.In accordance with his request, she freely related to him the incidents
of her prison life, from which we take the following extract:

"Early the next morning, Mary got up, and told me that nobody was up
yet in the house; and that she would show me the DRY PAN and the GRADUAL
FIRE, on condition that I should keep it a secret for her sake as well
as my own.This I promised, and she took me along with her, and showed
me a dark room with a thick iron door, and within it an oven and a large
brass pan upon it, with a cover of the same and a lock to it.The oven
was burning at the time, and I asked Mary for what purpose the pan was
there.Without giving me any answer, she took me by the hand and led
me to a large room, where she showed me a thick wheel, covered on both
sides with thick boards, and opening a little window in the center of
it, desired me to look with a candle on the inside of it, and I saw all
the circumference of the wheel set with SHARP RAZORS.After that she
showed me a PIT FULL OF SERPENTS AND TOADS.Then she said to me, 'Now,
my good mistress, I'll tell you the use of these things.The dry pan and
gradual fire are for those who oppose the holy father's will, and for
heretics.They are put naked and alive into the pan, and the cover of it
being locked up, the executioner begins to put in the oven a small fire,
and by degrees he augmenteth it, till the body is burned to ashes.The
second is designed for those who speak against the Pope and the holy
fathers.They are put within the wheel, and the door being locked, the
executioner turns the wheel till the person is dead.The third is for
those who contemn the images, and refuse to give the due respect and
veneration to ecclesiastical persons; for they are thrown alive into the
pit, and there they become the food of serpents and toads.'Then Mary
said to me that another day she would show me the torments for public
sinners and transgressors of the commandments of holy mother church;
but I, in deep amazement, desired her to show me no more places; for the
very thought of those three which I had seen, was enough to terrify me
to the heart.So we went to my room, and she charged me again to be very
obedient to all commands, for if I was not, I was sure to undergo the
torment of the dry pan."Llorente, the Spanish historian and secretary-general of the
Inquisition, relates the following incident: "A physician, Juan de
Salas, was accused of having used a profane expression, twelve months
before, in the heat of debate.He denied the accusation, and produced
several witnesses to prove his innocence.But Moriz, the inquisitor at
Valladolid, where the charge was laid, caused de Salas to be brought
into his presence in the torture-chamber, stripped to his shirt, and
laid on a LADDER or DONKEY, an instrument resembling a wooden trough,
just large enough to receive the body, with no bottom, but having a
bar or bars to placed that the body bent, by its own weight, into an
exquisitely painful position.His head was lower than his heels, and the
breathing, in consequence, became exceedingly difficult.The poor man,
so laid, was bound around the arms and legs with hempen cords, each of
them encircling the limb eleven times."During this part of the operation they admonished him to confess the
blasphemy; but he only answered that he had never spoken a sentence
of such a kind, and then, resigning himself to suffer, repeated the
Athanasian creed, and prayed to God and our Lady many times.Being
still bound, they raised his head, covered his face with a piece of fine
linen, and, forcing open the mouth, caused water to drip into it from an
earthen jar, slightly perforated at the bottom, producing in addition
to his sufferings from distension, a horrid sensation of choking.But
again, when they removed the jar for a moment, he declared that he had
never uttered such a sentence; and this he often repeated.They then
pulled the cords on his right leg, cutting into the flesh, replaced the
linen on his face, dropped the water as before, and tightened the cords
on his right leg the second time; but still he maintained that he
had never spoken such a thing; and in answer to the questions of his
tormentors, constantly reiterated that he HAD NEVER SPOKEN THOSE WORDS.Moriz then pronounced that the said torture should be regarded as
begun, but not finished; and De Salas was released, to live, if he could
survive, in the incessant apprehension that if he gave the slightest
umbrage to a familiar, he would be carried again into the same chamber,
and be RACKED IN EVERY LIMB."Llorente also relates, from the original records, another case quite as
cruel and unjust as the above."On the 8th day of December, 1528, one
Catalina, a woman of BAD CHARACTER, informed the inquisitors that,
EIGHTEEN YEARS BEFORE she had lived in the house with a Morisco named
Juan, by trade a coppersmith, and a native of Segovia; that she had
observed that neither he nor his children ate pork or drank wine, and
that, on Saturday nights and Sunday mornings they used to wash their
feet, which custom, as well as abstinence from pork and wine, was
peculiar to the Moors.The old man was at that time an inhabitant of
Benevente, and seventy-one years of age.But the inquisitors at once
summoned him into their presence, and questioned him at three several
interviews.All that he could tell was, that he received baptism when he
was forty-five years of age; that having never eaten pork or drunk wine,
he had no taste for them; and that, being coppersmiths, they found it
necessary to wash themselves thoroughly once a week.After some other
examinations, they sent him back to Benevente, with prohibition to go
beyond three leagues' distance from the town.Two years afterwards the
inquisitor determined that he should be threatened with torture, IN
ORDER TO OBTAIN INFORMATION THAT MIGHT HELP THEM TO CRIMINATE OTHERS.He was accordingly taken to Valladolid, and in a subterranean chamber,
called the 'chamber, or dungeon, of torment,' stripped naked, and bound
to the 'ladder.'This might well have extorted something like confession
from an old man of seventy-one; but he told them that whatever he might
say when under torture would be merely extorted by the extreme anguish,
and therefore unworthy of belief; that he would not, through fear of
pain, confess what had never taken place.They kept him in close prison
until the next Auto de Fe, when he walked among the penitents, with a
lighted candle in his hand, and, after seeing others burnt to death,
paid the holy office a fee of four ducats, and went home, not acquitted,
but released.He was not summoned again, as he died soon afterwards."It sometimes happened that an individual was arrested by mistake, and
a person who was entirely innocent was tortured instead of the real or
supposed criminal.Bower found related at length
in the "Annals of the Inquisition at Macerata.""An order was sent from the high tribunal at Rome to all the inquisitors
throughout Italy, enjoining them to apprehend a clergyman minutely
described in that order.One Answering the description in many
particulars being discovered in the diocese of Osimo, at a small
distance from Macerata, and subject to that Inquisition, he was there
decoyed into the holy office, and by an order from Rome SO RACKED AS TO
LOSE HIS SENSES.In the mean time, the true person being apprehended,
the unhappy wretch was dismissed, by a second order from Rome, but he
never recovered the use of his senses, NOR WAS ANY CARE TAKEN OF HIM BY
THE INQUISITION."It would be easy to fill a volume with such narratives as the above, but
we forbear.We are not writing a history of the Inquisition.We simply
wish to exhibit the true spirit by which the Romanists are actuated in
their dealings with those over whom they have power.We therefore, in
closing this chapter of horrors, beg leave to place before our readers
one of the FATHERLY BENEDICTIONS with which, His Holiness, the Pope,
dismisses his refractory subjects.Does it not show most convincingly
what he would do here in America, if he had, among us, the power he
formerly possessed in the old world, when the least inadvertent word
might perchance seal the doom of the culprit?A POPISH BULL OK CURSE."Pronounced on all who leave the Church of Rome.By the authority of God
Almighty, the Father, Son and Holy Ghost, and the undefiled Virgin
Mary, mother and patroness of our Saviour, and of all celestial virtues,
Angels, Archangels, Thrones, Dominions, Powers, Cherubim and Seraphim,
and of all the holy Patriarchs, Prophets, and of all the Apostles and
Evangelists, of the holy innocents, who in the sight of the holy Lamb
are found worthy to sing the new song of the Holy Martyrs and Holy
Confessors, and of all the Holy Virgins, and of all the Saints, together
with the Holy Elect of God,--MAY HE BE DAMNED.We excommunicate and
anathematize him, from the threshold of the holy church of God Almighty.We sequester him, that he may be tormented, disposed, and be delivered
over with Datham and Abiram, and with those who say unto the Lord,
'Depart from us, we desire none of thy ways;' as a fire is quenched with
water, so let the light of him be put out forevermore, unless it shall
repent him, and make satisfaction."May the Father who creates man, curse him.May the Son, who suffered
for us, curse him!May the Holy Ghost who is poured out in baptism,
curse him!May the Holy Cross, which Christ for our salvation,
triumphing over his enemies, ascended, curse him!"May the Holy Mary, ever Virgin and Mother of God, curse him!May all
the Angels, Principalities, and Powers, and all heavenly Armies curse
him!May the glorious band of the Patriarchs and Prophets curse him!John the Precursor, and St John the Baptist, and St.Andrew and all other of Christ's Apostles together
curse him and may the rest of the Disciples and Evangelists who by their
preaching converted the universe, and the Holy and wonderful company
of Martyrs and Confessors, who by their works are found pleasing to God
Almighty; may the holy choir of the Holy Virgins, who for the honor of
God have despised the things of the world, damn him.May all the Saints
from the beginning of the world to everlasting ages, who are found to be
beloved of God, damn him!"May he be damned wherever he be, whether in the house or in the alley,
in the woods or in the water, or in the church!May he be cursed in
living or dying!"May he be cursed in eating and drinking, in being hungry, in being
thirsty, in fasting and sleeping, in slumbering, and in sitting, in
living, in working, in resting, and in blood letting!May he be cursed
in all the faculties of his body!"May he be cursed inwardly and outwardly.May he be cursed in his hair;
cursed be he in his brains, and his vertex, in his temples, in his
eyebrows, in his cheeks, in his jaw-bones, in his nostrils, in his
teeth, and grinders, in his lips, in his shoulders, in his arms, and in
his fingers."May he be damned in his mouth, in his breast, in his heart, and
purtenances, down to the very stomach!"May he be cursed in his reins and groins, in his thighs and his hips,
and in his knees, his legs and his feet, and his toe-nails!"May he be cursed in all his joints, and articulation of the members;
from the crown of the head to the soles of his feet, may there be no
soundness!"May the Son of the living God, with all the glory of his majesty, CURSE
HIM!And may Heaven, with all the powers that move therein, rise
up against him, and curse and damn him; unless he repent and make
satisfaction!Such was the CURSE pronounced on the Rev.Hogan, (a converted Roman
Catholic priest) a few years since, in Philadelphia.As a further proof of the cruel, persecuting spirit of Catholicism, let
us glance at a few extracts from their own publications."Children," they say, "are obliged to denounce their parents or
relations who are guilty of heresy; ALTHOUGH THEY KNOW THAT THEY WILL BE
BURNT.They may refuse them all nourishment, and permit them to die
with hunger; or they may KILL THEM as enemies, who violate the rights of
humanity.--Escobar, Theolg."A man condemned by the Pope, may be killed wherever he is found.""Children may kill their parents, if they would turn their children
from the Popish faith.""If a judge decide contrary to law, the injured
person may defend himself by killing the judge."--Fangundez Precept
Decal, vol."To secretly kill your calumniator, to avoid scandal, is
justifiable.""You may kill before hand, any person who may put you to death,
not EXCEPTING THE JUDGE, AND WITNESSES, because it is
self-defence.""A priest may kill those who hinder him from taking possession of any
Ecclesiastical office.""You may charge your opponent with false crime to take away his credit,
as well as kill him."--Guimenius, prop, 8, p."Priests may kill the laity to preserve their goods.""You may kill any man to save a crown.""BY THE COMMAND OF GOD IT IS LAWFUL TO MURDER THE INNOCENT, TO ROB, AND
TO COMMIT ALL KIND OF WICKEDNESS, BECAUSE HE IS THE LORD OF LIFE
AND DEATH, AND ALL THINGS; AND THUS TO FULFILL HIS MANDATE IS OUR
DUTY."Again, in the Romish Creed found in the pocket of Priest Murphy, who was
killed in the battle of Arklow, 1798, we find the following articles."We acknowledge that the priests can make vice virtue, and virtue vice,
according to their pleasure."We are bound to believe that the holy massacre was lawful, and lawfully
put into execution, against Protestants, and likewise WE ARE TO CONTINUE
THE SAME, PROVIDED WITH SAFETY TO OUR LIVES!"We are bound not to keep our oaths with heretics, though bound by the
most sacred ties.We are bound not to believe their oaths; for their
principles are damnation.We are bound to drive heretics with fire,
sword, <DW19>, and confusion, out of the land; as our holy fathers say,
if their heresies prevail we will become their slaves.We are bound
to absolve without money or price, those who imbrue their hands in
the blood of a heretic!"Do not these extracts show very clearly that
Romanism can do things as bad as anything in the foregoing narrative?Whenever we refer to the relentless cruelties of the Romanists, we are
told, and that, too, by the influential, the intelligent, those who are
well-informed on other subjects, that "these horrid scenes transpired
only in the 'dark ages;'" that "the civilization and refinement of the
present age has so modified human society, so increased the milk of
human kindness, that even Rome would not dare, if indeed she had the
heart, to repeat the cruelties of by-gone days."For the honor of humanity we could hope that this opinion was correct;
but facts of recent date compel us to believe that it is as false as it
is ruinous to the best interests of our country and the souls of men.A few of these facts, gathered from unquestionable sources, and some of
them related by the actors and sufferers themselves, we place before the
reader.In November, 1854, Ubaldus Borzinski, a monk of the Brothers of Mercy,
addressed an earnest petition to the Pope, setting forth the shocking
immoralities practised in the convents of his order in Bohemia.He specifies nearly forty crimes, mostly perpetrated by priors and
subpriors, giving time, place, and other particulars, entreating the
Pope to interpose his power, and correct those horrible abuses.For sending this petition, he was thrown into a madhouse of the Brothers
of Mercy, at Prague, where he still languishes in dreary confinement,
though the only mark of insanity he ever showed was in imagining that
the Pope would interfere with the pleasures of the monks.This Ubaldus has a brother, like minded with himself, also a member of
the same misnamed order of monks, who has recently effected his escape
from durance vile.John Evangelist Borzinski was a physician in the convent of the Brothers
of Mercy at Prague.By the
study of the Psalms and Lessons from the New Testament, which make up
a considerable part of the Breviary used in cloisters, he was first
led into Protestant views.He had been for seventeen years resident in
different cloisters of his order, as sick-nurse, alms gatherer,
student, and physician, and knew the conventual life out and out.As he
testifies: "There was little of the fear of God, so far as I could
see, little of true piety; but abundance of hypocrisy, eye-service,
deception, abuse of the poor sick people in the hospitals, such love
and hatred as are common among the children of this world, and the most
shocking vices of every kind."He now felt disgust for the cloister life, and for the Romish religion,
and he sought, by the aid of divine grace, to attain to the new birth
through the Word of God.Speaking of his change of views to a Prussian
clergyman, he thus describes his conversion: "Look you, it was thus I
became a Protestant.I found a treasure in that dustheap, and went away
with it."He then thought
within himself, if these detached passages can give such light, what an
illumination he must receive if he could read and understand the whole
Bible.He did not, however, betray his dissatisfaction, but devoted himself
to his professional duties with greater diligence.He might still have
remained in the Order, his life hid with Christ in God, had not the
hierarchy, under pretence of making reforms and restoring the neglected
statutes of the Order, brought in such changes for the worse as led him
to resolve to leave the order, and the Romish church as well.Following
his convictions, and the advice of a faithful but very cautious
clergyman, he betook himself to the territories of Prussia, where, on
the 17th of January, 1855, he was received into the national church at
Petershain, by Dr.Nowotny, himself formerly a Bohemian priest.This was
not done till great efforts had been made to induce him to change his
purpose, and also to get his person into the power of his adversaries.As he had now left the church of Rome, become an openly acknowledged
member of another communion, he thought he might venture to return to
his own country.Taking leave of his Prussian friends, to whom he had
greatly endeared himself by his modesty and his lively faith, he went
back to Bohemia, with a heart full of peace and joy.He lived for some time amidst many perplexities, secluded in the house
of his parents at Prosnitz, till betrayed by some who dwelt in the same
habitation.On the 6th of March he was taken out of bed, at eight, by
the police, and conveyed first to the cloister in Prosnitz, where he
suffered much abuse, and from thence to the cloister in Prague.Here the
canon Dittrich, "Apostolical Convisitator of the Order of the Brothers
of Mercy," justified all the inhuman treatment he had suffered, and
threatened him with worse in case he refused to recant and repent.Dittrich not only deprived him of his medical books, but told him that
his going over to Protestantism was a greater crime than if he had
plundered the convent of two thousand florins.He was continually dinned
with the cry, "Retract, retract!"He was not allowed to see his brother,
confined in the same convent, nor other friends, and was so sequestered
in his cell as to make him feel that he was forgotten by all the world.He managed, through some monks who secretly sympathized with him, to get
a letter conveyed occasionally to Dr.These letters were filled
with painful details of the severities practised upon him.In one of
them he says, "My only converse is with God, and the gloomy walls around
me."He was transferred to a cell in the most unwholesome spot, and
infested with noisome smells not to be described.Close by him were
confined some poor maniacs, sunk below the irrational brutes.Under date of April 23d he writes: "Every hour, in this frightful
dungeon seems endless to me.For many weeks have I sat idle in this
durance, with no occupation but prayer and communion with God."His
appeals to civil authority and to the Primate of Hungary procured him no
redress, but only subjected him to additional annoyances and hardships.His aged father, a man of four-score years, wept to see him, though of
sound understanding, locked up among madmen; and when urged to make his
son recant, would have nothing to do with it, and returned the same
day to his sorrowful home.As he had been notified that he was to be
imprisoned for life, he prayed most earnestly to the Father of mercies
for deliverance; and he was heard, for his prayers and endeavors wrought
together.The sinking of his health increased his efforts to escape;
for, though he feared not to die, he could not bear the thought of dying
imprisoned in a mad-house, where he knew that his enemies would take
advantage of his mortal weakness to administer their sacraments to him,
and give out that he had returned to the bosom of the church, or at
least to shave his head, that he might be considered as an insane
person, and his renunciation of Romanism as the effect of derangement
of mind.Several plans of escape were projected, all beset with much
difficulty and danger.The one he decided upon proved to be successful.On Saturday, the 13th of October, at half-past nine in the evening, he
fastened a cord made of strips of linen to the grate of a window, which
grate did not extend to the top.Having climbed over this, he lowered
himself into a small court-yard.He had now left that part of the
establishment reserved for the insane, and was now in the cloistered
part where the brethren dwelt.He saw
at a distance a servant of the insane approaching with a light; and
with aching heart and trembling limbs, by a desperate effort, climbed
up again.He returned to his cell, concealing his cord, and laid himself
down to rest.On the following Monday, he renewed his efforts to escape.He lowered
himself, as before, into the little court-yard; but being weak in health
and much shaken in his nervous system by all he had suffered in body and
mind, he was seized with palpitation of the heart and trembled all over,
so that he could not walk a step.He laid down to rest and recover his
breath.He felt as if he could get no further."But," he says in his
affecting narrative, "My dear Saviour to whom I turned in this time of
need, helped me wonderfully.I felt now, more than ever in my life, His
gracious and comforting presence, and believed, in that dismal moment,
with my whole soul, His holy word;" "My grace is sufficient for thee;
for my strength is made perfect in weakness."Borzinski now arose, pulled off his boots, and though every step was
made with difficulty, he ascended the stairs leading to the first story.He went along the passage way until he came to a door leading into
corridors where the cloister brethren lodged.But the trembling fit came
over him again, with indescribable anguish, as he sought to open the
door with a key with which he had been furnished.He soon rallied again,
and, like a spectre, gliding by the doors of the brethren, who occupied
the second and third corridors, many of whom had lights still burning,
he came with his boots in one hand, and his bundle in the other, to
a fourth passage way, in which was an outside window he was trying to
reach.The cord was soon fastened to the window frame, yet still in
bitter apprehension; for this window was seldom opened, and opened
hard, and with some noise.It was also only two steps distant from the
apartment of the cloister physician, where there was a light, and it was
most likely that, on the first grating of the window, he would rush
out and apprehend the fugitive.However the window was opened without
raising any alarm, and now it was necessary to see that no one was
passing below; for though the spot is not very much frequented, yet
the streets cross there, and people approach it from four different
directions.During these critical moments, one person and another kept
passing, and poor Borzinski tarried shivering in the window for near a
quarter of an hour before he ventured to let himself down.While he
was waiting his opportunity he heard the clock strike the third quarter
after nine and knew that he had but fifteen minutes to reach the house
where he was to conceal himself, which would be closed at ten.When all
was still, he called most fervently on the Saviour, and grasping the
cord, slid down into the street.He could scarce believe his feet were
on the ground.Trembling now with joy and gratitude rather than fear, he
ran bareheaded to his place of refuge, where he received a glad welcome.Having changed his garb, and tarried till three o'clock in the morning,
he took leave of his friends and passing through the gloomy old capital
of Bohemia, he reached the Portzitscher Gate, in order to pass out
as early as possible.Just then a police corporal let in a wagon, and
Borzinski, passed out unchallenged.It is needless to follow him further
in his flight.We have given enough, of his history to prove that
conventual establishments are at this moment what they ever have
been--dangerous alike to liberty and life.AMERICAN AND FOREIGN
CHRISTIAN UNION.In place of labored arguments we give the following history of personal
suffering as strikingly illustrative of the spirit of Romanism at the
present day.APPENDIX VII

NARRATIVE OP SIGNORINA FLORIENCIA D' ROMANI, A NATIVE OF THE CITY OF
NAPLES.I was born in the year 1826, of noble and wealthy parents.Our mansion
contained a small chapel, with many images, sacred paintings, and a
neatly furnished mass altar.As he lived on the rents and income
of his estates, he had little to do, except to amuse himself with his
friends.My mother, who was of as mild and sweet disposition, loved my
father very dearly, but was very unhappy the most of the time because
my father spent so much of his time in drinking with his dissolute
companions, card playing, and in balls, parties, theatres, operas,
billiards, &c. Father did not intend to be unkind to my mother, for he
gave her many servants, and abundance of gold, horses, carriages and
grooms, and said frequently in my hearing, that his wife should be as
happy as a princess.Such was the state of society in Italy that men
thought their wives had no just reason to complain, so long as they were
furnished with plenty of food, raiment and shelter.One of my father's most intimate friends was the very Rev.Father
Salvator, a Priest of the order of St.Francis; he wore the habit of
the order, his head was about half shaved.The sleeves of his habit were
very large at the elbow; in these sleeves he had small pockets, in which
he usually carried his snuff box, handkerchief, and purse of gold.This
priest was merry, full of fun and frolic; he could dance, sing, play
cards, and tell admirably funny stories, such as would make even the
devils laugh in their chains.Such was the influence and power this Franciscan had over my father and
mother, that in our house, his word was law.He was our confessor, knew
the secrets and sins, and all the weak points of every mind in the whole
household.My own dear mother taught me to read before I was seven years
of age.As I was the only child, I was much petted and caressed, indeed,
such was my mother's affection for me that I was seldom a moment out of
her sight.There was a handsome mahogany confessional in our own chapel.When the priest wanted any member of the household to come to him to
confession, he wrote the name on a slate that hung outside the chapel
door, saying that he would hear confessions at such a time to-morrow.Thus, we would always have time for the full examination of our
consciences.Only one at a time was ever admitted into the chapel, for
confessional duty, and the priest always took care to lock the door
inside and place the key in his sleeve pocket.My mother and myself were
obliged to confess once a week; the household servants, generally once a
month.My father only once a year, during Lent, when all the inhabitants
of seven years, and upwards, are obliged to kneel down to the priests,
in the confessional, and receive the wafer God under the severest
penalties.Woe to the individual who resists the ecclesiastical mandate.When I was about fourteen years of age, I was sent to the Ursuline
Convent, to receive my education.My dear mother would have preferred
a governess or a competent teacher to teach me at home but her will was
but a mere straw in the hands of our confessor and priestly tyrant.It
was solely at the recommendation of the confessor, that I was imprisoned
four years in the Ursuline Convent.As my confessor was also the
confessor of the convent, he called himself my guardian and protector,
and recommended me to the special care of the Mother Abbess, and her
holy nuns, the teachers, who spent much of their time in the school
department.As my father paid a high price, quarterly, for my tuition
and board, I had a good room to myself, my living was of the best kind,
and I always had wine at dinner.The nuns, my teachers, took much more
pains to teach me the fear of the Pope, bishops and confessors, than
the fear of God, or the love of virtue.In fact, with the exception of a
little Latin and embroidery, which I learned in those four years, I came
out as ignorant as I was before, unless a little hypocrisy may be called
a useful accomplishment.For, of all human beings on earth, none can
teach hypocrisy so well as the Romish priests and nuns.In the school
department young ladies seldom have much to complain of, unless they are
charity scholars; in that case the poor girls have to put up with very
poor fare, and much hard work, hard usage and even heavy blows; how my
heart has ached for some of those unfortunate girls, who are treated
more like brutes, than human beings, because they are orphans, and poor.Yet they in justice are entitled to good treatment, for thousands of
scudi (dollars) are sent as donations to the convents for the support
of these orphans, every year, by benevolent individuals.So that as poor
and unfortunate as these girls are, they are a source of revenue to the
convents.For the first three years of my convent life, I passed the time in
the school department, without much anxiety of mind.I was gay and
thoughtless, my great trouble was to find something to amuse myself,
and kill time in some way.Though I treated all the school-mates with
kindness, and true Italian politeness, I became intimate with only one.She was a beautiful girl, from the dukedom of Tuscany.She made me her
confidant, and told me all her heart.Her parents were wealthy, and both
very strict members of the Romish Church.But she had an aunt in the
city of Geneva, who was a follower of John Calvin, or a member of the
Christian church of Switzerland.This aunt had been yearly a visitor at
her father's house.She being her father's only sister, an affectionate
intimacy was formed between the aunt and niece.The aunt, being a very
pious, amiable woman, felt it her duty to impress the mind of the niece,
with the superiority of the religion of the holy bible over popish
traditions; and the truth of the Scriptures soon found its way to the
heart of my young friend.But her confessor soon found out that some
change was going on in her mind, and told her father.There were
only two ways to save her soul from utter ruin; one was to give her
absolution and kill her before she got entirely out of the holy mother
church; the other, was to send her to the Ursuline convent at Naples,
where by the zeal and piety of those celebrated nuns, she might be
secured from further heresy.From this, the best friend of my school days, I learned more about God's
word, and virtue, and truth, and the value of the soul, than from all
other sources.There was a garden surrounded by a high wall, in which we
frequently walked, and whispered to each other, though we trembled all
the while for fear our confessor would by some means, find out that we
looked upon the Romish church as the Babylon destined to destruction,
plainly spoken of by St.My young friend stood in great fear of the priests; she trembled at the
very sight of one.Her aunt had read to her the history and sufferings of the persecuted
Protestants of Europe.She was a frail, and timid girl, yet such was the
depth of her piety and the fervor of her religious faith, that she often
declared to me that she would prefer death to the abandonment of those
heavenly principles she had embraced, which were the source of her
joy and hope.Her aunt gave her a pocket New Testament, in the Italian
language, which she prized above all the treasures of earth, and carried
with her carefully, wherever she went.I borrowed it and read it every
opportunity I had.I took much
pains to commit to memory all I could of the blessed book, for in
case of our separation, I knew not where I could obtain another.My
god-father who was a bishop, called to see me on my fifteenth birth day,
and presented me with a splendid gold watch and chain richly studded
with jewels, made in England, and valued at 200 scudi, saying that
he had it imported expressly for my use.I had also several diamond
articles of jewelry, presents I had received from my father from time to
time.I had also, in my purse, 100 scudi in gold, which I had saved from
my pin money.All the above property, I should have cheerfully given for
a copy of the Holy Bible, in my own beautiful Italian language.A few
months after I received the rich present from the Bishop, he called with
my father and my confessor to see me.My heart almost came into my mouth
when I saw them alight from my father's carriage, and enter the chapel
door of the convent.Very soon the lady porter came to me and said,
"Signorina, you are wanted in the parlor."As my Tuscan friend had taught me to pray, and ask the Lord Jesus for
grace and strength, I walked into my room, locked the door, and on my
knees, called upon the Lord to save me from becoming a nun--for I
knew then it was a determination on the part of the Abbess, bishop
and confessor, that I should take the veil.I was the only child, and
heiress of an immense fortune, of course, too good a prize to be lost.After a short and fervent prayer to my Lord and Saviour, I walked down
to see what was to be my doom.I kissed my father's cheek, and kissed
the hands of the Bishop and confessor--yet my very soul revolted
from the touch of these whited sepulchres.All received me with great
cordiality, yea, even more than usual affection.Soon after our meeting,
my father asked permission of the Bishop to speak to me privately and
taking me into a small room, said to me, "My dear daughter, you are not
aware of the great misfortune that has recently come upon your father.While I was excited with wine at the card-table last evening, betting
high and winning vast sums of money, I so far forgot myself and my duty
to the laws of the country, that I called for a toast, and induced
a number of my inebriated companions to drink the health of Italian
liberty, and we all drank and gave three cheers for liberty and a
liberal constitution.A Benedictine Friar being present, took all our
names to the Commissary General, and offered to be a witness against
us in the King's Court.As this is my first and only offence, the holy
Bishop your god-father offers on certain conditions, to visit Rome
immediately on my behalf, and secure the mediation of the holy Father
Pius IX.Your venerable god-father has great influence at Rome, being
a special favorite with his holiness, and his holiness can obtain any
favor he asks of King Ferdinand.So if you will only consent to take the
Black Veil, your father will be saved from the State prison."This was terrible news to my young and palpitating heart.It was the
first heavy blow that I had experienced in this vale of tears.I did not
speak for some minutes; I could not.My trembling bosom heaved like the
waves of the ocean before the blast.My veins were almost bursting; my
hands and feet became as cold as marble, and when I attempted to speak
my words seemed ready to choke me to death.I fell upon my knees and called upon God for mercy and help.My
father, thinking I had gone mad, was greatly alarmed.The Bishop
and confessor, who were anxiously waiting the result of my father's
proposition, hearing my father weep and sob aloud, came in to see what
the matter was.In the midst of my prayer, I fainted away, and became
entirely unconscious.When I came to myself, I found myself on the bed.As I opened my eyes, it all seemed like a dream.The abbess spoke to me
very kindly, and sprinkled my bed with holy water, and at the same time
laid a large bronze crucifix on my breast, saying that Satan must be
driven from my soul, for had it not been for the devil, I would have
leaped for joy, and not fainted when father mentioned the black veil."No," said the holy mother, "had it not been for the devil you would
rejoice to take the holy black veil blessed by the Holy Madonna and the
blessed saints Clara and Theresa.It is a holy privilege that very few
can enjoy on earth.Yea, my daughter, there can not be a greater sin
in the sight of the Madonna and the blessed saints, than to reject a
secluded life.Yea," said the crafty old nun, (who was thinking much
more about my gold, than my soul,) "I never knew a young lady who had
the offer of becoming a nun and rejected it, who ever came to a good
end.If they refuse, and marry, they generally die in child-bed with the
first child, or they will marry cruel husbands, who beat them and kill
them by inches.Therefore, dear daughter, let me most affectionately
warn you as you have had the honor of being selected by the holy Bishop
and our holy confessor to the high dignity and privilege of a professed
nun, of the order of St.Ursula, reject it not at your peril.Be
assured, heaven knows how to punish such rebellion."My head ached so violently at the time, and I was so feverish that I
begged the old woman to send for my mother, and to talk to me no more on
the subject of the black veil, but to drop it until some future time.In
my agony on account of the foul plot against my liberty, my virtue, and
my gold, I felt such a passion of rage come upon me, that had I absolute
power for the moment I would have cast every Abbess, Pope, Bishop and
Priest into the bottomless pit.May the Lord forgive me, but I would
have done it at that time with a good will.The greatest comfort I now
had was reading my Tuscan friend's New Testament, or hearing it read by
her when we had a chance to be by ourselves, which was not very often.In the evening of the same day of my illness, father and mother came to
see me, and Satan came also in the shape of the confessor; so that I
had not a moment alone with my dear parents.The confessor feared my
determined opposition to a convent's life, for he had previous to this,
several times in the confessional, dropped hints to me on the great
happiness, purity, serenity and joy of all holy nuns.But I always told
him I would not be a nun for the world.I should be so good, it would
kill me in a short time."No, no, father," said I, "I WILL NOT BE A
NUN."Father spoke to me again of his great misfortune--told me that his trial
would come on in a few days and that he was now at liberty on a
very heavy bail; that the Bishop was only waiting my answer to start
immediately for the holy city, and throw himself at the feet of the holy
Pope to procure father's unconditional pardon from the King.I said
"my dear father, how long will you be imprisoned if you do not get a
pardon?""From two to five years," he replied."My daughter, it is
my first offence, and I have witnesses to prove that the priest who
appeared against me, urged me to drink wine several times after I had
drank a large quantity, and was the direct cause of my saying what
I did."Now it all came to me, that the whole of it was a plot, a
Jesuitical trick, to get my father in the clutches of the law, and then
make a slave of me for life through my sympathy for my dear father.The vile priests knew that I loved my father most ardently; in fact, my
father and mother were the only two beings on earth that I did love.My
mother I loved most tenderly, but my affection for my father was of a
different kind.I loved him most violently, with all the ardor of my
soul.Mother seemed all the home to me; but father was to me all the
world beside.He would frequently
come home, and get me to go out into the garden and play with him,
just as though he was my brother.There we would swing, run, jump and
exercise in several healthy games, common in our climate.He never gave
me an unkind word or an unkind reproof.If I did say anything wrong, he
would take me to my mother and say, "Clara, here I bring you a prisoner,
let her be kept on bread and water till dinner time."Even when mother
had displeased him about some trifle, so that he had not a smile for
her, he always had a smile for his Flora.Even now, while I write, a
chill comes over my frame, while I think of that vile Popish plot.I
said to my father, "You shall not be imprisoned if I can prevent it; at
the same time I do not see any great gain, comfort or profit in having
your only daughter put in prison for life, without the hope of liberty
ever more, to save you from two years imprisonment."At these words, the eyes of the confessor flashed like lurid lightnings;
his very frame shook, as though he had the fever and ague.Truth seemed
so strange to the priest, that he found it hard of digestion.Father
and mother both wept, but made no reply.The idea of putting their only
child in a dungeon for life, though it might be done in the sacred name
of religion, did not seem to give them much comfort "Father," said I, "I
wish to see you at ten o'clock to-morrow morning, without fail--I wish
to see you alone; don't bring mother or any one else with you.You shall
not go to prison, all will yet be well."On account of this reasonable
request, to see my father alone, the confessor arose in a terrible rage
and left the apartment As quick as the mad priest left us to ourselves,
I told my father my plan, or what I would like to do with his
permission.My plan was, for my mother and myself to get into our
carriage and drive to the palace of King Ferdinand and make him
acquainted with all the truth; for I was aware from what I had heard,
that the King had heard only the priest's side of the story.My father
stood in such fear of the priests that he only consented to my plan with
great reluctance, saying that we ought first to make our plan known to
the confessor, lest he should be offended.To this my mother responded,
saying, "My daughter, it would be very wrong for us to go to the King,
or take any step without the advice of our spiritual guide."Here,
I felt it to be my duty to reveal to my deceived parents some of the
secrets of the confessional, though I might, in their estimation,
be guilty of an unpardonable sin by breaking the seal of iniquity.I
revealed to my parents the frequent efforts of the priest to obtain my
consent to take the veil, and that I had opposed from first to last,
every argument made use of to rob me of the society of my parents, of my
liberty, and of everything I held dear on earth.As to the happiness of
the nuns so much talked of by the priests, from what I had seen in their
daily walk and general deportment, I was fully convinced that there was
no reality in it; they were mere slaves to their superiors, and not half
so happy as the free slaves on a plantation who have a kind master.My
parents saw my determination to resist to the death every plan for my
imprisonment in the hateful nunnery.Therefore they promised that I
should have the opportunity to see the King on the morrow in company
with my mother.On the following day, at twelve o'clock, we left the convent in our
carriage for the palace.We were very politely received by the gentleman
usher, who conducted us to seats in the reception-room.After sending
our cards to the king, we waited nearly one hour before he made his
appearance.His majesty received us with much kindness, raised us
immediately from our knees, and demanded our business.I was greatly
embarrassed at first, but the frank and cordial manner of the sovereign
soon restored me to my equilibrium, and I spoke freely in behalf of my
dear father.The king heard me through very patiently, with apparent
interest, and said, "Signorina, I am inclined to believe you have spoken
the truth; and as your father has always been a good loyal subject, I
shall, for your sake, forgive him this offence; but let him beware that
henceforth, wine or no wine, he does not trespass against the laws
of the kingdom, for a second offence I will not pardon.Go in peace,
signoras, you have my royal word."We thanked his majesty, and returned to our home with the joyful
tidings.My father, who had been waiting the
result of our visit to the palace with great impatience, received us
with open arms, and pressed us to his heart again and again.I was so excited that, long before we got to him, I cried out, "All is
well, all is well, father.We drove
home, and father went immediately to spread the happy news amongst
his friends.All our faithful domestics, including my old affectionate
nurse, were so overjoyed at the news that they danced about like
maniacs.My father was always a very indulgent and liberal master,
furnished his servants with the best of Italian fare, plenty of
fresh beef, wine, and macaroni.We had scarcely got rested, when our
tormenter, the confessor, came into our room and said, "Signoras, what
is the meaning of all this fandango and folly amongst the servants?ARE
THE HERETICS ALL KILLED, that there should be such joy, or has the queen
been delivered of a son, an heir to the throne?"My dear mother was now as pale as death, and silent, for she saw that
the priest was awfully enraged; for, although he feigned to smile, his
smile was similar to that of the hyena when digging his prey out of
the grave.The priest's dark and villainous visage had the effect of
confirming in my mother's mind all the truth regarding the plot to
enslave me for life, and secure all my father's estate to the pockets
of the priests.The confessor was now terribly mad, for two obvious
reasons: one was because he was not received by us with our usual
cordiality and blind affection; the other, because, by the king's
pardon, I was not under the necessity to sacrifice my liberty and
happiness for life to save my father from prison; and what tormented him
the most was, that he believed that I, though young, could understand
and thwart his hellish plans.As my mother trembled and was silent,
fearing the priest was cursing her and her only daughter in his
heart,--for the priests tell such awful stories about the effects of a
priest's curse that the great mass of the Italian people fear it more
than the plague or any earthly misfortune.Peter is the doorkeeper of the great
city of God, the heavenly Jerusalem, that he has the keys of the kingdom
of heaven, and has received strict orders not to admit any soul, under
any circumstances, who has been cursed by a holy priest, unless that
curse has been removed by the same priest in the tribunal of penance.I
was obliged to speak to his reverence, and I felt so free, so happy in
Christ as my only hope, that I opened my mind to the priest very freely,
and told him what I thought of him and his plot."Sir priest," said I,
"I shall never return to the convent to stay long.As soon as the time
for my education ends, I shall return to liberty and domestic life.I
am not made of the proper material to make a nun of.I love the social
domestic circle; I love my father and mother, and all our domestics,
even the dogs and the cats, pigeons, and canaries, the fish-ponds,
play-grounds, gardens, rivers, and landscapes, mountain and ocean,--all
the works of God I love.I shall live out of the convent to enjoy these
things; therefore, reverend sir, if you value my peace and good-will,
never speak to me or my parents on the subject of my becoming a nun in
any convent.I shall prefer death to the loss of my personal liberty."I was so decided, and had received such strength and grace from heaven,
that the priest was dumbfounded,--my smooth stone out of the sling
had hit him in the right place.After much effort to appear bland and
good-natured, he drew near my chair, seized my hand, and said, "My dear
daughter, you mistake me.I love you as a daughter, I wish only your
happiness.Your god-father, the holy Bishop, does not intend that you
shall remain a common nun more than a year.After the first year you
shall be raised to the highest dignity in the convent.You shall be the
Lady Superior, and all the nuns shall bow at your feet, and implicitly
obey your commands.Clara is now very old, and his lordship wishes
soon to fill her place.For that purpose he has selected his adopted
daughter.Your talents, education, wealth, and high position in society,
eminently fit you for one of the highest dignities on earth.""A thousand thanks for the kindness of my lord Bishop," said I; "but
your reverence has not altered my mind in the least.I can never bow
down to the feet of any Lady Superior, neither will I ever consent to
see a single human being degraded at my feet.The holy Bible says, 'Thou
shalt worship the Lord thy God, and him only shalt thou serve.'"exclaimed the priest, "Where did you see that dangerous
book?Know you not that his holiness the Pope has placed it in the
Index Expurgatorius, because it has been the means of the damnation of
millions of souls?Not because it is in itself a bad book, but because
it is a theological work, prepared only for the priests and ministers of
our holy religion.Therefore, it is always a very dangerous book in
the hands of women or laymen, who wrest the Scriptures to their own
destruction.""Well, reverend sir," I replied, "you seem determined to differ from the
Lord Jesus and his apostles.I read in the New Testament that we should
search the Scriptures because they testify of Christ.And one of the
apostles, I don't remember which, said, 'all scripture is given by the
inspiration of God, and is profitable for doctrine and for instruction
in righteousness.'Now, reverend sir, if the people have souls, as well
as the priests, why should they not read the word of God which speaks of
Christ and is profitable for instruction?"exclaimed the priest, "and you talk very
much like one."His countenance changed to a pale sickly hue, as he
said, "My daughter, where did you get that dangerous book?If you have,
it in your possession, give it to me, and I will bless you, and pray for
you to the blessed Madonna that she may save you from the infernal pit
of heresy.""I do not own the blessed book," said I, "but I wish I did.I would give
one hundred scudi in gold for a copy of the New Testament.I borrowed a
copy from a friend, and returned it to the owner again.But I understand
that there are copies to be had in London, and when I have a good
opportunity I shall send for a copy, if I can do it unbeknown to any
one.""I shall be in the tribunal of
penance at six o'clock P.M.You need
pardon immediately, and spiritual advice.Should you die as you now are
without absolution, you would be lost and damned forever.I tremble for
you, my dear daughter, seeing that the devil has got such a powerful
hold of you.It may even be absolutely necessary to kill the body to
save your soul; for should you relapse again into heresy after due
penance for this crime has been performed, it would be impossible to
renew you again to repentance, seeing you crucify the Lord and the
Madonna afresh, and put them to an open shame."Here my mother fainted and shook like an aspen leaf.But God gave me
strength, and I said in a moment that as his reverence thought my sins
so great, I would not go to any man, no, not even to the Pope; I
would go to God alone, and leave my cause in his hands, life or death."Therefore, reverend sir, I shall save you from all further trouble in
attending the confessional any more on my account.From henceforth no
earthly power shall drag me alive and with my consent to the tribunal of
penance."exclaimed the priest furiously, "are you mad?There are ten
thousand devils in you, and we must drive them out by some means."After
this discharge of priestly venom, the priest left in a rage giving the
door a terrible slam, which awoke my mother from her sorrowful trance.During the whole conversation, such was the electrical power of the
priest over my mother's weak and nervous system, that if she attempted
to say a word in my behalf, the keen, snakish black eye of the priest
would at once make her tremble and quail before him, and the half
uttered word would remain silent on her lips.The priest went at once
in search of my father.He came home boiling over with rage, saying he
wished I had never been born.The
cause of all this paternal fury upon my poor devoted head was the foul
misrepresentations of my father confessor, who was now in league with
the Bishop, both determined to shut me up in a prison convent, or end my
mortal career.My poor mother remained mute and heart-broken.My sweet mother; never
did she utter one word of unkindness to me; her very look to the last
was one of gentleness and love.But my father loved honor and reputation
amongst men above all other things.The idea of being the father of an
accursed heretic, tormented his pride, and he being suspected of heresy
himself caused him to be forsaken by many of his proud friends and
acquaintances.He was even insulted in the streets by the numerous
Lazaroni, with the epithet of Maldito Corrobonari, so that I lost my
father's love.And when the confessor told him there was no other way
to save me from hell than an entire life of penance in a convent, he
heartily and freely gave his consent.Mother, my own sweet mother, my
only remaining friend, turned as pale as death, but was enabled to say a
word in my behalf.I saw that my earthly doom was sealed; there was not a single voice in
all Naples to save me from imprisonment for life.Not a tongue in four
hundred thousand that would dare speak one word in my behalf.Father
commanded me to get ready to leave his house forever that very night,
saying the carriage and confessor would be on hand to take me away at
eight o'clock P.M., by moonlight.I got on my knees and begged my father
as a last request that he would allow me to remain three days with my
mother, but he refused.Said he, "That is now beyond my power.Not an
hour can you remain after eight o'clock."As I knew not when I should see my Tuscan friend again, I begged the
privilege of seeing her for a few moments.I was anxious to ask her
prayers and sympathy, and to put her on her guard, for should the
priests discover her New Testament, they would punish her as they did
me, or as they intended to do to me.But this favor was denied me, and I
could not write to her, for all letters of the scholars in the
convents, are opened under the pretence to prevent them from receiving
love-letters.The Romish church keeps all her dark plans a secret, but
never allows any secret to be kept from the priests.I went into my room to bid farewell to my home forever.I fell on my
knees and prayed to God for his dear Son's sake to help me, to give me
patience, and to keep me from the sin of suicide.The more I thought
of my utterly unprotected situation and of the savage disposition of my
foes, the priests, the more I thought of the propriety of taking my own
life, rather than live in a dungeon all my days.Such was the power of
superstition over our domestics that they looked upon me as one accursed
of the church, a Protestant heretic, and not one of them would take my
hand or bid me good bye.At tea-time I was not allowed to sit at table
with father, mother, and the confessor, as formerly.But I had my supper
sent up to my room.A short time after the bell rang for vespers, the carriage being ready,
my father and the confessor with myself and one small trunk got into the
best seats inside, and rode off at a rapid rate.I kept my veil over my
face, and said not a word neither did I shed a single tear; my sorrow,
and indignation was too deep for utterance or even for tears.The priest
and my father uttered not a word.Perhaps my father's conscience
made him ashamed of such vile work--that of laying violent hands on a
defenceless girl of eighteen years of age, for no crime whatever, only
the love of liberty and pure Bible religion.But if the priest was
silent, his vile countenance indicated a degree of hellish pleasure and
satisfaction.Never did piratical captain glory more in seeing a rich
prize along side with all hands killed and out of the way, than my
reverend confessor; yet a short time before he said he loved me as a
daughter.Yes, he did love me, as the wolf loves the lamb, as the cat
loves the mouse and as the boa constrictor the beautiful gazelle.To
my momentary satisfaction we entered the big gate of St.Ursula, for
although I knew I should suffer there perhaps even death, there was some
satisfaction in seeing a few faces that I had seen in my gay and happy
days, now alas!I was somewhat grieved by the cold
reception I received.But none
of these things moved me; I looked to God for strength, for I felt that
He alone could nerve me for the conflict.The hardest blow of all was,
my dear father left me at the mercy of the priest without one kind look
or word.He did not even shake hands with me, nor did he say farewell.Oh Popery, what a mysterious power is thine!Thou canst in a few hours
destroy powerful love which it took long years to cement in loving
hearts.When my father had left and I heard the porter lock the heavy
iron gate I felt an exquisite wretchedness come over me.I would have
given worlds for death at that moment.In a few moments the priest rung
a bell, and the old Jezebel the mother Abbess made her appearance."Take
this heretic, Holy Mother, and place her in confinement in the lower
regions; GIVE HER BREAD AND WATER ONCE IN TWENTY-FOUR HOURS, THE WATER
THAT YOU HAVE WASHED YOUR SACRED FEET IN, NO OTHER; give her straw
to sleep on, but no pillow.Take all her clothing away and give her a
coarse tunic; one single coarse garment to cover her nakedness, but no
shoes.She has grievously sinned against the holy mother church, and now
she mercifully imposes upon her years of severe penance, that her body
of sin may be destroyed and her soul saved after suffering one million
of years in holy purgatory.Our chief duty now, holy mother, in order
to save this lost soul from mortal sin will be to examine her carefully
every, day to ascertain if possible what she most dislikes, or what
is most revolting to her flesh, that whatever it may be, she, must be
compelled to perform it whatever it may cost.Let a holy wax candle burn
in her cell at night, until further orders.And let the Tuscan heretic
be treated in the same way.At
the word "Tuscan heretic," possessing the spirit of Christ that I knew
on earth.Yet how true it is that misery loves company; there was even
satisfaction in being near my unfortunate friend though our sufferings
might be unutterable.Still I was unhappy in the thought that she was
suffering on my account.Had I never said a word about borrowing a New
Testament, she would never have been suspected as being the direct
cause of my conversion to the truth, and of my renunciation of the vile
confessional.I was somewhat puzzled to know what kind of a place was meant by the
lower regions; I had never heard of these regions before.But soon two
women in black habits with their faces entirely covered excepting
two small holes for the eyes to peep through, came to me and without
speaking, made signs for me to follow them.I did so without resistance,
and soon found myself in an under-ground story of the infernal building."There is your cell," said the cowled inquisitors, "look all around, see
every thing, but speak not; no not for your life.The softest whisper
will immediately reach the ears of the Mother Abbess, and then you are
loaded with heavy chains until you die, for there must be no talking
or whispering in this holy retreat of penance.And," said my jailor
further, "take off your clothes, shoes and stockings, and put on this
holy coarse garment which will chafe thy flesh but will bless thy soul.Francis saved many souls by this holy garment."As resistance was worse than useless, I complied, and soon found my poor
feet aching with the cold on the bare stone floor.I was soon made to
feel the blessing of St.My sufferings were
indescribable.It seemed as though ten thousand bees had stung me in
every part.I laid on my
coarse straw and groaned and sighed for death to come and relieve me of
my anguish.As soon as the holy wax candle was left with me I took it
in my hand and went forth to survey my dungeon; but I did not enjoy
my ramble.In one of the cells, I found my Tuscan friend--that dear
Christian sister--in great agony, having had on the accursed garment for
several days.Her body was one entire blister, and very much inflamed.Her bones were racked with pain, as with the most excruciating
inflammatory rheumatism.We recognized each other; she pointed to heaven
as if to say 'trust in the Lord, my sister, our sufferings will soon
be over.'I kissed my hand to her and returned again to my cell.I
saw other victims half dead and emaciated that made my heart sick.I
refrained from speaking to any one for I feared my condition, wretched
as it was, might be rendered even worse, if possible by the fiends who
had entire power over me.said I to myself, "why was I born?O give my soul patience to suffer every pain."On the fourth day of my imprisonment the jailor brought me some water
and soap, a towel, brush and comb, and the same clothes I wore when I
entered the foul den.They told me to make haste and prepare myself to
appear before the holy Bishop.Hope revived in my soul, for I always
thought that my god-father had some regard for me, and had now come to
release me from the foul den I was in.Cold water seemed to afford much
relief to my tortured body.I made my toilet as quick as I could in such
a place.My feet were so numb and swollen that it was difficult for me
to get my shoes on.At last the Bishop arrived as I supposed, and I
was conducted--not into his presence as I expected, but into that of
my bitterest enemy, the confessor.At the very sight of the monster, I
trembled like a reed shaken by the wind.The priest walked to each of
the doors, locked them, put the keys into a small writing desk, locked
it, took out the key and placed it carefully in his sleeve pocket.This
he did to assure me that we were alone, that not one of the inmates
could by any means disturb for the present the holy meditations of the
priest.He bade me take a seat on the sofa by him.In kind soft words he
said to me, that if I was only docile and obedient, he would cause me
to be treated like a princess, and that in a short time I should have
my liberty if I preferred to return to the world.At the same time he
attempted to put his arm around my waist.While he was talking love to me, I was looking at two large alabaster
vases full of beautiful wax flowers; one of them was as much as I could
lift.Without one thought about consequences, I seized the nearest vase
and threw it with all the strength I had at the priest's head.He fell
like a log and uttered one or two groans.It
struck the priest on the right temple, close to the ear.For a moment I
listened to see if any one were coming.I then looked at the priest, and
saw the blood running out of his wound.I quaked with fear lest I had
killed the destroyer of my peace.I did not intend to kill him, I only
wished to stun him, that I might take the keys, open the door and run,
for the back door of the priest's room led right into a back path where
the gates were frequently opened daring the day time.This was about
twelve o'clock, and a most favorable moment for me to escape.In a
moment I had searched the sleeve pocket of the priest, found the key and
a heavy purse of gold which I secured in my dress pocket.I opened the
little writing desk and took out the key to the back door.I saw that
the priest was not dead, and I had not the least doubt from appearances,
but that he would soon come to.I trembled for fear he might wake before
I could get away.I thought of my dear Tuscan sister in her wretched
cell, but I could not get to her without being discovered.I opened the door with the greatest facility and gained
the opening into the back path.I locked the door after me, and brought
the key with me for a short distance, then placed all the keys tinder
a rock.I had no hat but only a black veil.I threw that over my head
after the fashion of Italy and gained the outer gate.There were masons
at work near the gate which was open and I passed through into the
street without being questioned by any one.As I had not a nun's dress on, no one supposed I belonged to the
Institution.I could speak a
few English words which I had learned from some English friends of my
father.Before I got to where the boats lay I saw a gentleman whom I
took to be an English or American gentleman.He had a pleasant face,
looked at me very kindly, saw my pale dejected face and at once felt a
deep sympathy for me.As I appeared to be in trouble and needed help,
he extended his hand to me and said in tolerable good Italian, "Como va'
le' signorina?"that is "How do you do young lady?""Me," said he, "Americano, Americano, capitano de
Bastimento.""Signor Capitano," said I,
"I wish to go on board your ship and see an American ship.""Well," said
he, "with a great deal of pleasure; my ship lies at anchor, my men are
waiting; you shall dine with me, Signorina."I praised God in my soul for this merciful providence of meeting a
friend, though a stranger, whose face seemed to me so honest and so
true.Any condition, even honest slavery, would have been preferred by
me at that time to a convent.The American ship was the most
beautiful thing I ever saw afloat; splendid and neat in all her cabin
arrangements.The mates were polite, and the sailors appeared neat and
happy.Even the black cook showed his beautiful white teeth, as though
he was glad to see one of the ladies of Italy.Little did
they know at that time what peril I was in should I be found out and
taken back to my dungeon again.I informed the captain of my situation,
of having just escaped from a convent into which I had been forced
against my will.I told him I would pay him my passage to America, if
he would hide me somewhere until the ship was well out to sea.He said
I had come just in time, for he was only waiting for a fair wind, and
hoped to be off that evening."I have," said he, "a large number of
bread-casks on board, and two are empty.I shall have you put into one
of these, in which I shall make augur-holes, so that you can have plenty
of fresh air.Down in the hold amongst the provisions you will be safe."I thanked my kind friend and requested him to buy me some needles, silk,
and cotton thread, and some stuff for a couple of dresses, and one-piece
of fine cotton, so that I might make myself comfortable during the
voyage.After I ate my dinner, the men called the captain and said there were
several boats full of soldiers coming to the ship, accompanied by the
priests."Lady," exclaimed the captain, "they are after you.There is
not a moment to be lost.Smith, tell
the men to be careful and not make known that there is a lady on board."I followed my friend quickly, and soon
found myself coiled in a large cask.The captain coopered the head,
which was missing, and made holes for me to get the air; but the
perspiration ran off my face in a stream.Lots of things were piled on
the cask, so that I had hard work to breathe; but such was my fear
of the priests that I would rather have perished in the cask than be
returned to die by inches.The captain had been gone but a short time when I heard steps on deck,
and much noise and confusion.As the hatches were open, I could hear
very distinctly.After the whole company were on deck, the captain
invited the priests and friars, about twenty in number, to walk down to
the cabin, and explain the cause of their visit.They talked through an
interpreter, and said that "a woman of bad character had robbed one of
the churches of a large amount of gold, had attempted to murder one
of the holy priests, but they were happy to say that the holy father,
though badly wounded, was in a fair way of recovery.This woman is
young, but very desperate, has awful raving fits, and has recently
escaped from a lunatic institution.When her fits of madness come on
they are obliged to put her into a straight jacket, for she is the most
dangerous person in Italy.A great reward is offered for her by her
father and the government--five thousand scudi.Is not this enough to
tempt one to help find her?She was seen coming towards the shipping,
and we want the privilege of searching your ship.""Gentlemen," said the captain, "I do not know that the Italian
authorities have any right to search an American ship, under the stars
and stripes of the United States, for we do not allow even the greatest
naval power on earth to do that thing.But if such a mad and dangerous
woman as you have described should by any means have smuggled herself
on board my ship, you are quite welcome to take her away as soon as
possible, for I should be afraid of my life if I was within one hundred
yards of such an unfortunate creature.If you can get her into your
lunatic asylum, the quicker the better; and the five thousand scudi will
come in good time, for I am thinking of building me a larger ship on my
return home.Now, gentlemen, come; I will assist you, for I should like
to see the gold in my pocket."The captain opened all his closets and
secret places, in the cabin and forecastle and in the hold; everything
was searched, all but the identical bread-cask in which I was snugly
coiled.After something like half an hour's search, the soldiers of King
Ferdinand and the priests of King Pope left the ship, satisfied that the
crazy nun was not on board; for, judging the captain by themselves, they
thought he certainly would have given up a mad woman for the sake of
five thousand scudi in gold, and for the safety of his own peace and
comfort.A few moments after the Pope's friends had left, the excellent
benevolent captain came down, and speedily and gently knocking off a
few hoops with a hammer, took the head out, and I was free once more
to breathe God's free air.I lifted my trembling heart in thanksgiving,
while tears of gratitude rolled down my cheeks.Yet, as we were still
within the reach of the guns of the papal forts, my heart was by no
means at rest.But the good captain assured me repeatedly that
all danger was past, for he had twenty-five men on board, all true
Protestants, and he declared that all the priests of Naples would walk
over their dead bodies before they should reach his vessel a second
time."And besides," said the captain, "there are two American
men-of-war in port, who will stand up for the rights of Americans.They
have not yet forgotten Captain Ingraham, of the United States ship
St.Louis, and his rescue from the Austrian <DW7>s of the Hungarian
patriot, Martin Kozsta."The captain wisely refused to purchase any
needles or thread for me on shore, or any articles of ladies' dress,
for fear of the Jesuitical spies, who might surmise something and cause
further trouble.But he kindly furnished me with some goods he had
purchased for his own wife, and there were needles and silk enough on
board, so that I soon cut and made a few articles that made me very
comfortable during our voyage of thirty-two days to London.Early the next morning we sailed out of the beautiful harbor of Naples,
with a fair wind.The beautiful ship seemed to fly over the blue sea.I staid on deck gazing at my native city as long as I could.I thought
then of my once happy home, of my poor, broken-hearted mother, of my
unhappy father.Although he had cast me off through the foul play of
Jesuitical intrigue, my love for my dear father remained the same."Farewell, my dear Italy," I said to myself."When, my poor native land,
wilt thou be happy?Never, never, so long as the Pope lives, and his
wicked, murderous priests, to curse thee by their power."After we got out into the open sea, the motion of the ship made me feel
very sick, and I was so starved out before I came on board, that what
good provisions I ate on board did not seem to agree with me.My stomach
was in a very bad state, for while I was in the lower regions of the
convent I ate only a small quantity of very stale hard bread once in
twenty-four hours, at the ringing of the vesper bells every evening, and
the water given me was that in which the holy Mother Abbess had washed
her sacred feet.But I must give the holy mother credit for one good
omission--she did not use any soap.The captain gave me a good state-room which I occupied with an English
lady passenger.This good lady was accustomed to the sea, therefore, she
did not suffer any inconvenience from sea-sickness; but I was very sick,
so that I kept my berth for five days.This good Protestant lady was
very kind and attentive during the whole passage, and kindly assisted me
in getting my garments made up on board.On our arrival in London, the
captain said that he would sail for America in two weeks time, and very
kindly offered me a free passage to his happy, native land; and I could
not persuade him to take any money for my passage from Naples, nor for
the clothing he had given me.My fellow passenger being wealthy, and well acquainted with people in
England, took me to her splendid home, a few miles from London.At her
residence I was introduced to a young French gentleman, a member of the
Evangelical protestant church in France, and a descendant of the pious
persecuted Huguenots.This gentleman speaks good English and Italian,
having enjoyed the privilege of a superior education.His fervent
prayers at the family altar morning and evening made a very deep
impression on my mind.He became deeply interested in my history, and
offered to take me to France, after I should become his lawful wife.Though I did not like the idea of choosing another popish country for my
residence, yet as my friend assured me that I should enjoy my protestant
religion unmolested, I gave him my hand and my heart.My lady fellow
passenger was my bridesmaid.We were married by a good protestant
minister.My husband is a wealthy merchant--gives me means and
opportunities for doing good.Our
home is one of piety and peace and happiness.The blessed Bible is read
by us every day.Morning and evening we sing God's praise, and call upon
the name of the Lord.Our prayer is that God may deliver beloved France
and Italy from the curse of popery.Another proof of the persecuting spirit of Rome is furnished by the
"Narrative of Raffaele Ciocci, formerly a Benedictine Monk, but who now
'comes forth from Inquisitorial search and torture, and tells us what
he has seen, heard and felt.'"We can make but a few extracts from
this interesting little volume, published by the American and Foreign
Christian Union, who,--to use their own language--"send it forth as a
voice of instruction and warning to the American people.They are not to be set aside by an apology for the
dark ages, nor an appeal to the refinement of the nineteenth century.Here is Rome, not as she WAS in the midnight of the world, but as she
IS at the present moment.There is the same opposition to private
judgment--the same coercive measures--the same cruel persecution--the
same efforts to crush the civil and religious liberties of her own
subjects, for which she has ever been characterized."Ciocci, compelled at an early age to enter the Catholic College--forced,
notwithstanding his deep disgust and earnest remonstrance, to become a
monk--imprisoned--deceived--the victim of priestly artifice and fraud,
at length becomes a Christian.He is of course thrown into a deeper
dungeon; and more exquisite anguish inflicted upon him that he may be
constrained to return to the Romish faith.Of his imprisonment he says,
"We traversed long corridors till we arrived at the door of an apartment
which they requested me to enter, and they themselves retired.On
opening the door I found myself in a close dark room, barely large
enough for the little furniture it contained, which consisted of a small
hard bed, hard as the conscience of an inquisitor, a little table cut
all over, and a dirty ill-used chair.The window which was shut and
barred with iron resisted all my efforts to open it My heart sunk within
me, and I began to cogitate on the destiny in store for me."The Jesuit
Giuliani entering his room, he asked that the window might be opened
for the admission of light and air.Before the words were finished he
exclaimed in a voice of thunder, "How!wretched youth, thou complainest
of the dark, whilst thou art living in the clouds of error?Dost thou
desire the light of heaven, while thou rejectest the light of the
Catholic faith?"Ciocci saw that remonstrance was useless, but he reminded his jailer
that he had been sent there for three days, to receive instruction, not
to be treated as a criminal."For three days," he resumed, counterfeiting my tone of voice, "for
three days!The dainty youth will not forsooth,
be roughly treated; it remains to be seen whether he desires to be
courteously entertained.Fortunate is it for thee that thou art come to this place.THOU WILT
NEVER quit it excepting with the real fruits of repentance!Among these
silent shades canst thou meditate at thy leisure upon the deplorable
state into which thou hast fallen.Woe unto thee, if thou refusest to
listen to the voice of God, who conducts souls into solitude that he
may speak with them.""So saying," he continues, "he abruptly left me.I
remained alone drooping under the weight of a misfortune, which was the
more severe, because totally unexpected.I stood, I know not how long,
in the same position, but on recovering from this lethargy, my first
idea was of flight.Without giving a minute account of the manner
in which I passed my wearisome days and nights in this prison, let it
suffice to say that they were spent in listening to sermons preached to
me four times a day by the fathers Giuliani and Rossini, and in the most
gloomy reflections."In the mean time the miseries I endured were aggravated by the heat of
the season, the wretchedness of the chamber, scantiness of food, and the
rough severity of those by whom I was occasionally visited.Uncertainty
as to when this imprisonment would be at an end, almost drove me wild,
and the first words I addressed to those who approached me were, 'Have
the kindness to tell me when I shall be permitted to leave this place?'One replied, 'My son, think of hell.'I interrogated another; the answer
was, 'Think my son, how terrible is the death of the sinner!'I spoke
to a third, to a fourth, and one said to me, 'My son, what will be your
feeling, if, on the day of judgment you find yourself on the left hand
of God?'the other, 'Paradise, my son, Paradise!'No one gave me a
direct answer; their object appeared to be to mistify and confound me.After the first few days, I began to feel most severely the want of
a change of clothing.Accustomed to cleanliness, I found myself
constrained to wear soiled apparel.* * * For the want of a comb, my
hair became rough and entangled.After the fourth day my portion of food
was diminished; a sign, that they were pressing the siege, that it was
their intention to adopt both assault and blockade--to conquer me by
arms, or induce me to capitulate through hunger.I had been shut up in
this wretched place for thirteen days, when, one day, about noon, the
Father Mislei, the author of all my misery, entered my cell."At the sight of this man, resentment overcame every other
consideration, and I advanced towards him fully prepared to indulge my
feelings, when he, with his usual smile, expressed in bland words
his deep regret at having been the cause of my long detention in this
retreat.'Never could I have supposed,' said he, 'that my anxiety
for the salvation of your soul would have brought you into so much
tribulation.But rest assured the fault is not entirely mine.You have
yourself, in a great degree, by your useless obstinacy, been the cause
of your sufferings.Ah, well, we will yet remedy all.'Not feeling any
confidence in his assurance, I burst out into bitter invectives and
fierce words.He then renewed his protestations, and clothed them with
such a semblance of honesty and truth, that when he ended with this
tender conclusion, 'Be assured, my son, that I love you,' my anger
vanished.* * * I lost sight of the Jesuit, and thought I was addressing
a man, a being capable of sympathising in the distresses of others.'Ah,
well, father,' said I, 'I need some one on whom I can rely, some one
towards whom I can feel kindly; I will therefore place confidence in
your words.'"After some further conversation, Ciocci was asked if
he wished to leave that place.he replied, "what a
strange question!You might as well ask a condemned soul whether he
desires to escape from hell!"At these words the Jesuit started like a
goaded animal, and, forgetting his mission of deceiver, with, knit brows
and compressed lips, he allowed his ferocious soul for one moment
to appear; but, having grown old in deceit, he immediately had the
circumspection to give this movement of rage the appearance of religious
zeal, and exclaimed, "What comparisons are these?Are you not ashamed to
assume the language of the Atheist?By speaking in this way you clearly
manifest how little you deserve to leave this place.But since I have
told you that I love you, I will give you a proof of it by thinking no
more of those irreligious expressions; they shall be forgotten as though
they had never been spoken.Well, the Cardinal proposes to you an easy
way of returning to your monastery.""Here is
the way," said he, presenting me with a paper: "copy this with your
own hand; nothing more will be required of you.""I took the paper with
convulsive eagerness.It was a recantation of my faith, there condemned
as erroneous.* * * Upon reading this, I shuddered, and, starting to my
feet, in a solemn attitude and with a firm voice, exclaimed, 'Kill me,
if you please; my life is in your power; but never will I subscribe
to that iniquitous formulary.'The Jesuit, after laboring in vain
to persuade me to his wishes, went away in anger.I now momentarily
expected to be conducted to the torture.Whenever I was taken from my
room to the chapel, I feared lest some trap-door should open beneath
my feet, and therefore took great care to tread in the footsteps of the
Jesuit who preceded me.No one acquainted with the Inquisition will say
that my precaution was needless.My imagination was so filled with the
horrors of this place, that even in my short, interrupted, and feverish
dreams I beheld daggers and axes glittering around me; I heard the noise
of wheels, saw burning piles and heated irons, and woke in convulsive
terror, only to give myself up to gloomy reflections, inspired by the
reality of my situation, and the impressions left by these nocturnal
visions.What tears did I shed in those dreary moments!How innumerable
were the bitter wounds that lacerated my heart!My prayers seemed to me
unworthy to be received by a God of charity, because, notwithstanding
all my efforts to banish from my soul every feeling of resentment
towards my persecutors, hatred returned with redoubled power.I often
repeated the words of Christ, 'Father, forgive them, they know not what
they do;' but immediately a voice would answer, 'This prayer is not
intended for the Jesuits; they resemble not the crucifiers, who were
blind instruments of the rage of the Jews; while these men are fully
conscious of what they are doing; they are the modern Pharisees.'The
reading of the Bible would have afforded me great consolation, but this
was denied me."* * *

The fourteenth day of his imprisonment he was taken to the council
to hear his sentence, when he was again urged to sign the form of
recantation.The Father Rossini then spoke: "You are
decided; let it be, then, as you deserve.Rebellious son of the church,
in the fullness of the power which she has received from Christ, you
shall feel the holy rigor of her laws.She cannot permit tares to grow
with the good seed.She cannot suffer you to remain among her sons and
become the stumbling-block for the ruin of many.Abandon, therefore,
all hope of leaving this place, and of returning to dwell among the
faithful.KNOW, ALL IS FINISHED FOR YOU!"For the conclusion of this narrative we refer the reader to the volume
itself.If any more evidence were needed to show that the spirit of Romanism is
the same to-day that it has ever been, we find it in the account of
a legal prosecution against ten Christians at Beldac, in France,
for holding and attending a public worship not licensed by the civil
authority.They had made repeated, respectful, and earnest applications
to the prefect of the department of Hante-Vienne for the authorization
required by law, and which, in their case, ought to have been given.They persisted in rendering to God that worship
which his own command and their consciences required.For this they were
arraigned as above stated, on the 10th of August, 1855.On the 26th of
January, 1856, the case was decided by the "tribunal," and the three
pastors and one lady, a schoolmistress, were condemned to pay a fine
of one thousand francs each, and some of the others five-hundred francs
each, the whole amount, together with legal expenditures, exceeding the
sum of nine thousand francs.Meantime, the converts continue to hold their worship-meetings in the
woods, barns, and secret places, in order not to be surprised by the
police commissioner, and to avoid new official reports."Thus, you see," says V. De Pressense, in a letter to the 'American and
foreign Christian Union,' "that we are brought back to the religious
meetings of the desert, when the Protestants of the Cevennes evinced
such persevering fidelity.The only difference is, that these Christians
belonged only a short time ago to that church which is now instigating
persecutions against them."DESTRUCTION OF THE INQUISITION IN SPAIN.Lehmanowsky was attached to the part of Napoleon's army
which was stationed in Madrid.L., "I
used to speak freely among the people what I thought of the Priests
and Jesuits, and of the Inquisition.It had been decreed by the Emperor
Napoleon that the Inquisition and the Monasteries should be suppressed,
but the decree, he said, like some of the laws enacted in this country,
was not executed."Months had passed away, and the prisons of the Inquisition had not been
opened.One night, about ten or eleven o'clock, as he was walking one of
the streets of Madrid, two armed men sprang upon him from an alley, and
made a furious attack.He instantly drew his sword, put himself in a
posture of defence, and while struggling with them, he saw at a distance
the lights of the patrols,--French soldiers mounted, who carried
lanterns, and who rode through the streets of the city at all hours of
the night, to preserve order.He called to them in French, and as they
hastened to his assistance, the assailants took to their heels and
escaped; not, however, before he saw by their dress that they belonged
to the guards of the Inquisition.He went immediately to Marshal Soult, then Governor of Madrid, told him
what had taken place, and reminded him of the decree to suppress this
institution.Marshal Soult told him that he might go and suppress it The
Colonel said that his regiment (the 9th.of the Polish Lancers,) was not
sufficient for such a service, but if he would give him two additional
regiments, the 117th, and another which he named, he would undertake the
work.The 117th regiment was under the command of Col.De Lile, who
is now, like Col.L., a minister of the gospel, and pastor of an
evangelical church in Marseilles, France."The troops required were
granted, and I proceeded," said Col.L., "to the Inquisition which was
situated about five miles from the city.It was surrounded by a wall of
great strength, and defended by a company of soldiers.When we arrived
at the walls, I addressed one of the sentinels, and summoned the holy
fathers to surrender to the Imperial army, and open the gates of the
Inquisition.The sentinel who was standing on the wall, appeared to
enter into conversation with some one within, at the close of which he
presented his musket, and shot one of my men.This was the signal of
attack, and I ordered my troops to fire upon those who appeared on the
walls."It was soon obvious that it was an unequal warfare.The soldiers of the
holy office were partially protected by a breast-work upon the walls
which were covered with soldiers, while our troops were in the open
plain, and exposed to a destructive fire.We had no cannon, nor could
we scale the walls, and the gates successfully resisted all attempts at
forcing them.I could not retire and send for cannon to break through
the walls without giving them time to lay a train for blowing us up.I saw that it was necessary to change the mode of attack, and directed
some trees to be cut down and trimmed, to be used as battering rams.Two
of these were taken up by detachments of men, as numerous as could work
to advantage, and brought to bear upon the walls with all the power they
could exert, while the troops kept up a fire to protect them from the
fire poured upon them from the walls.Presently the walls began to
tremble, a breach was made, and the Imperial troops rushed into the
Inquisition.Here we met with an incident, which nothing but Jesuitical
effrontery is equal to.The Inquisitor General, followed by the father
confessors in their priestly robes, all came out of their rooms, as we
were making our way into the interior of the Inquisition, and with long
faces, and arms crossed over their breasts, their fingers resting on
their shoulders, as though they had been deaf to all the noise of
the attack and defence, and had just learned what was going on, they
addressed themselves in the language of rebuke to their own soldiers,
saying, "WHY DO YOU FIGHT OUR FRIENDS, THE FRENCH?"Their intention, no doubt, was to make us think that this defence was
wholly unauthorized by them, hoping, if they could make us believe
that they were friendly, they should have a better opportunity, in the
confusion of the moment, to escape.Their artifice was too shallow, and
did not succeed.I caused them to be placed under guard, and all
the soldiers of the Inquisition to be secured as prisoners.We then
proceeded to examine all the rooms of the stately edifice.We passed
through room after room; found all perfectly in order, richly furnished,
with altars and crucifixes, and wax candles in abundance, but we could
discover no evidences of iniquity being practiced there, nothing of
those peculiar features which we expected to find in an Inquisition.We found splendid paintings, and a rich and extensive library.Here was
beauty and splendor, and the most perfect order on which my eyes
had ever rested.The
ceilings and floors of wood were scoured and highly polished.The marble
floors were arranged with a strict regard to order.There was everything
to please the eye and gratify a cultivated taste; but where were those
horrid instruments of torture, of which we had been told, and where
those dungeons in which human beings were said to be buried alive?The holy father assured us that they had been
belied; that we had seen all; and I was prepared to give up the search,
convinced that this Inquisition was different from others of which I had
heard.De Idle was not so ready as myself to give up the search, and
said to me, "Colonel, you are commander to-day, and as you say, so it
must be; but if you will be advised by me, let this marble floor be
examined.Let water be brought and poured upon it, and we will watch
and see if there is any place through which it passes more freely than
others."I replied to him, "Do as you please, Colonel," and ordered
water to be brought accordingly.The slabs of marble were large and
beautifully polished.When the water had been poured over the floor,
much to the dissatisfaction of the inquisitors, a careful examination
was made of every seam in the floor, to see if the water passed through.De Lile exclaimed that he had found it.By the side of
one of these marble slabs the water passed through fast, as though
there was an opening beneath.All hands were now at work for further
discovery; the officers with their swords and the soldiers with their
bayonets, seeking to clear out the seam, and pry up the slab; others
with the butts of their muskets striking the slab with all their might
to break it, while the priests remonstrated against our desecrating
their holy and beautiful house.While thus engaged, a soldier, who was
striking with the butt of his musket, struck a spring, and the marble
slab flew up.Then the faces of the inquisitors grew pale as Belshazzar
when the hand writing appeared on the wall; they trembled all over;
beneath the marble slab, now partly up, there was a stair-case.I
stepped to the altar, and took from the candlestick one of the candles
four feet in length, which was burning that I might explore the room
below.As I was doing this, I was arrested by one of the inquisitors,
who laid his hand gently on my arm, and with a very demure and holy look
said "My son, you must not take those lights with your bloody hands they
are holy.""Well," said I, "I will take a holy thing to shed light
on iniquity; I will bear the responsibility."I took the candle, and
proceeded down the stair-case.As we reached the foot of the stairs
we entered a large room which was called the hall of judgment.In the
centre of it was a large block, and a chain fastened to it.On this they
were accustomed to place the accused, chained to his seat.On one side
of the room was an elevated seat called the Throne of Judgment.This,
the Inquisitor General occupied, and on either side were seats less
elevated, for the holy fathers when engaged in the solemn business of
the Holy Inquisition.From this room we proceeded to the right, and obtained access to small
cells extending the entire length of the edifice; and here such sights
were presented as we hoped never to see again.Three cells were places
of solitary confinement, where the wretched objects of inquisitorial
hate were confined year after year, till death released them from their
sufferings, and their bodies were suffered to remain until they were
entirely decayed, and the rooms had become fit for others to occupy.To prevent this being offensive to those who occupied the Inquisition,
there were flues or tubes extending to the open air, sufficiently
capacious to carry off the odor.In these cells we found the remains
of some who had paid the debt of nature: some of them had been dead
apparently but a short time, while of others nothing remained but their
bones, still chained to the floor of their dungeon.In others we found living sufferers of both sexes and of every age, from
three score years and ten down to fourteen or fifteen years--all naked
as they were born into the world!Here were old men
and aged women, who had been shut up for many years.Here, too, were the
middle aged, and the young man and the maiden of fourteen years old.The soldiers immediately went to work to release the captives from
their chains, and took from their knapsacks their overcoats and
other clothing, which they gave to cover their nakedness.They were
exceedingly anxious to bring them out to the light of day; but Col.L., aware of the danger, had food given them, and then brought them
gradually to the light, as they were able to bear it.L., to explore another room on the left.Here we found the instruments of torture, of every kind which the
ingenuity of men or devils could invent.L., here described four
of these horrid instruments.The first was a machine by which the victim
was confined, and then, beginning with the fingers, every joint in the
hands, arms and body, were broken or drawn one after another, until the
victim died.The second was a box, in which the head and neck of the
victim were so closely confined by a screw that he could not move in any
way.Over the box was a vessel, from which one drop of water a second,
fell upon the head of the victim;--every successive drop falling upon
precisely the same place on the head, suspended the circulation in a few
moments, and put the sufferer in the most excruciating agony.The third
was an infernal machine, laid horizontally, to which the victim was
bound; the machine then being placed between two beams, in which were
scores of knives so fixed that, by turning the machine with a crank, the
flesh of the sufferer was torn from his limbs, all in small pieces.The
fourth surpassed the others in fiendish ingenuity.Its exterior was
a beautiful woman, or large doll, richly dressed, with arms extended,
ready, to embrace its victim.Around her feet a semi-circle was drawn.The victim who passed over this fatal mark, touched a spring which
caused the diabolical engine to open; its arms clasped him, and a
thousand knives cut him into as many pieces in the deadly embrace.L., said that the sight of these engines of infernal cruelty kindled the
rage of the soldiers to fury.They declared that every inquisitor and
soldier of the inquisition should be put to the torture.They might have turned their
arms against him if he had attempted to arrest their work.The first they put to death in the machine for
breaking joints.The torture of the inquisitor put to death by the
dropping of water on his head was most excruciating.The poor man cried
out in agony to be taken from the fatal machine.The inquisitor general
was brought before the infernal engine called "The Virgin.""No" said they, "you have caused others to kiss her, and
now you must do it."They interlocked their bayonets so as to form large
forks, and with these pushed him over the deadly circle.The beautiful
image instantly prepared for the embrace, clasped him in its arms,
and he was cut into innumerable pieces.L. said, he witnessed the
torture of four of them--his heart sickened at the awful scene--and he
left the soldiers to wreak their vengeance on the last guilty inmate of
that prison-house of hell.In the mean time it was reported through Madrid that the prisons of the
Inquisition were broken open, and multitudes hastened to the fatal spot.And, Oh, what a meeting was there!About a
hundred who had been buried for many years were now restored to life.There were fathers who had found their long lost daughters; wives were
restored to their husbands, sisters to their brothers, parents to their
children; and there were some who could recognize no friend among the
multitude.The scene was such as no tongue can describe.L. caused the library, paintings,
furniture, etc., to be removed, and having sent to the city for a wagon
load of powder, he deposited a large quantity in the vaults beneath
the building, and placed a slow match in connection with it.All had
withdrawn to a distance, and in a few moments there was a most joyful
sight to thousands.The walls and turrets of the massive structure rose
majestically towards the heavens, impelled by the tremendous explosion,
and fell back to the earth an immense heap of ruins.Lehmanowsky of the destruction of the
inquisition in Spain.Was it then finally destroyed, never again to be
revived?Giacinto Achilli, D. D.
Surely, his statements in this respect can be relied upon, for he is
himself a convert from Romanism, and was formerly the "Head Professor of
Theology, and Vicar of the Master of the Sacred Apostolic Palace."He certainly had every opportunity to obtain correct information on the
subject, and in a book published by him in 1851, entitled "Dealings
with the Inquisition," we find, (page 71) the following startling
announcement."We are now in the middle of the nineteenth century, and
still the Inquisition is actually and potentially in existence.This
disgrace to humanity, whose entire history is a mass of atrocious
crimes, committed by the priests of the Church of Rome, in the name of
God and of His Christ, whose vicar and representative, the pope, the
head of the Inquisition, declares himself to be,--this abominable
institution is still in existence in Rome and in the Roman States."Again, (page 89) he says, "And this most infamous Inquisition, a hundred
times destroyed and as often renewed, still exists in Rome as in the
barbarous ages; the only difference being that the same iniquities are
at present practiced there with a little more secrecy and caution than
formerly, and this for the sake of prudence, that the Holy See may not
be subjected to the animadversions of the world at large."On page 82 of the same work we find the following language."I do not
propose to myself to speak of the Inquisition of times past, but of what
exists in Rome at the present moment; I shall therefore assert that the
laws of this institution being in no respect changed, neither can the
institution itself be said to have undergone any alteration.The present
race of priests who are now in power are too much afraid of the popular
indignation to let loose all their inquisitorial fury, which might even
occasion a revolt if they were not to restrain it; the whole world,
moreover, would cry out against them, a crusade would be raised against
the Inquisition, and, for a little temporary gratification, much power
would be endangered.This is the true reason why the severity of its
penalties is in some degree relaxed at the present time, but they still
remain unaltered in its code."Again on page 102, he says, "Are the torments which are employed at the
present day at the Inquisition all a fiction?It requires the impudence
of an inquisitor, or of the Archbishop of Westminister to deny their
existence.I have myself heard these evil-minded persons lament and
complain that their victims were treated with too much lenity.I inquired of the inquisitor of Spoleto.Thomas Aquinas says," answered he; "DEATH TO ALL THE
HERETICS.""Hand over, then, to one of these people, a person, however respectable;
give him up to one of the inquisitors, (he who quoted St.Thomas Aquinas
to me was made an Archbishop)--give up, I say, the present Archbishop of
Canterbury, an amiable and pious man, to one of these rabid inquisitors;
he must either deny his faith or be burned alive.Is not this the spirit that invariably actuates the
inquisitors?and not the inquisitors only, but all those who in any
way defile themselves with the inquisition, such as bishops and their
vicars, and all those who defend it, as the <DW7>s do.Wiseman, the Archbishop of Westminster according to the
pope's creation, the same who has had the assurance to censure me from
his pulpit, and to publish an infamous article in the Dublin Review, in
which he has raked together, as on a dunghill, every species of filth
from the sons of Ignatius Loyola; and there is no lie or calumny that he
has not made use of against me.Well, then, suppose I were to be handed
over to the tender mercy of Dr.Wiseman, and he had the full power to
dispose of me as he chose, without fear of losing his character in
the eyes of the nation to which, by parentage more than by merit, he
belongs, what do you imagine he would do with me?Should I not have to
undergo some death more terrible than ordinary?Would not a council be
held with the reverend fathers of the company of Loyola, the same who
have suggested the abominable calumnies above alluded to, in order
to invent some refined method of putting me out of the world?I feel
persuaded that if I were condemned by the Inquisition to be burned
alive, my calumniator would have great pleasure in building my funeral
pile, and setting fire to it with his own hands; or should strangulation
be preferred, that he would, with equal readiness, arrange the cord
around my neck; and all for the honor and glory of the Inquisition, of
which, according to his oath, he is a true and faithful servant."Achilli is the spirit of Romanism!Can we
doubt that it would lead to results as frightful as anything described
in the foregoing story?But let us listen to his further remarks on the present state of the
Inquisition.On page 75 he says, "What, then, is the Inquisition of the
nineteenth century?The same system of intolerance which prevailed in
the barbarous ages.That which raised the Crusade and roused all Europe
to arms at the voice of a monk [Footnote: Bernard of Chiaravalle.]and
of a hermit, [Footnote: Peter the Hermit.]That which--in the name of
a God of peace, manifested on earth by Christ, who, through love
for sinners, gave himself to be crucified--brought slaughter on the
Albigenses and the Waldenses; filled France with desolation, under
Domenico di Guzman; raised in Spain the funeral pile and the scaffold,
devastating the fair kingdoms of Granada and Castile, through the
assistance of those detestable monks, Raimond de Pennefort, Peter
Arbues, and Cardinal Forquemorda.That, which, to its eternal infamy,
registers in the annals of France the fatal 24th of August, and the 5th
of November in those of England."That same system which at this moment flourishes at Rome, which has
never yet been either worn out or modified, and which at this present
time, in the jargon of the priests, is called a "the holy, Roman,
universal, apostolic Inquisition.Holy, as the place where Christ was
crucified is holy; apostolic, because Judas Iscariot was the first
inquisitor; Roman and universal, because FROM ROME IT EXTENDS OVER ALL
THE WORLD.It is denied by some that the Inquisition which exists in
Rome as its centre, is extended throughout the world by means of the
missionaries.The Roman Inquisition and the Roman Propaganda are in
close connection with each other.Every bishop who is sent in partibus
infidelium, is an inquisitor charged to discover, through the means of
his missionaries, whatever is said or done by others in reference to
Rome, with the obligation to make his report secretly.The Apostolic
nuncios are all inquisitors, as are also the Apostolic vicars.Here,
then, we see the Roman Inquisition extending to the most remote
countries."Again this same writer informs us, (page 112,) that "the
principal object of the Inquisition is to possess themselves, by
every means in their power, of the secrets of every class of society.Consequently its agents (Jesuits and Missionaries,) enter the domestic
circle, observe every motion, listen to every conversation, and would,
if possible, become acquainted with the most hidden thoughts.It is in
fact, the police, not only of Rome, but of all Italy; INDEED, IT MAY BE
SAID OF THE WHOLE WORLD."Achilli are fully corroborated by the Rev.In a book published by him in 1852, entitled
"The Brand of Dominic," we find the following remarks in relation to the
Inquisition of the present time.The Roman Inquisition is, therefore,
acknowledged to have an infinite multitude of affairs constantly on
hand, which necessitates its assemblage thrice every week.Still there
are criminals, and criminal processes.The body of officials are still
maintained on established revenues of the holy office.So far from any
mitigation of severity or judicial improvement in the spirit of its
administration, the criminal has now no choice of an advocate; but one
person, and he a servant of the Inquisition, performs an idle ceremony,
under the name of advocacy, for the conviction of all.And let the
reader mark, that as there are bishops in partibus, so, in like manner,
there are inquisitors of the same class appointed in every country, and
chiefly, in Great Britain and the colonies, who are sworn to secrecy,
and of course communicate intelligence to this sacred congregation of
all that can be conceived capable of comprehension within the infinitude
of its affairs.We must, therefore, either believe that the court
of Rome is not in earnest, and that this apparatus of universal
jurisdiction is but a shadow,--an assumption which is contrary to all
experience,--or we must understand that the spies and familiars of the
Inquisition are listening at our doors, and intruding themselves on our
hearths.How they proceed, and what their brethren at Rome are doing,
events may tell; BUT WE MAY BE SURE THEY ARE NOT IDLE.They were not idle in Rome in 1825, when they rebuilt the prisons of
the Inquisition.They were not idle in 1842, when they imprisoned Dr.Achilli for heresy, as he assures us; nor was the captain, or some other
of the subalterns, who, acting in their name, took his watch from him
as he came out.They were not idle in 1843, when they renewed the old
edicts against the Jews.And all the world knows that the inquisitors on
their stations throughout the pontifical states, and the inquisitorial
agents in Italy, Germany, and Eastern Europe, were never more active
than during the last four years, and even at this moment, when every
political misdemeanor that is deemed offensive to the Pope, is,
constructively, a sin against the Inquisition, and visited with
punishment accordingly.A deliberative body, holding formal session
thrice every week, cannot be idle, and although it may please them to
deny that Dr.Achilli saw and examined a black book, containing the
praxis now in use, the criminal code of inquisitors in force at this
day,--as Archibald Bower had an abstract of such a book given him for
his use about one hundred and thirty years ago,--they cannot convince
me that I have not seen and handled, and used in the preparation of this
volume, the compendium of an unpublished Roman code of inquisitorial
regulations, given to the vicars of the inquisitor-general of Modena.They may be pleased to say that the mordacchia, or gag, of which Dr.Achilli speaks, as mentioned in that BLACK BOOK, is no longer used;
but that it is mentioned there, and might be used again is more than
credible to myself, after having seen that the "sacred congregation" has
fixed a rate of fees for the ordering, witnessing, and administration of
TORTURE.There was indeed, a talk of abolishing torture at Rome; but
we have reason to believe that the congregation will not drop the
mordacchia, inasmuch, as, instead of notifying any such reformation to
the courts of Europe, this congregation has kept silence.For although a
continuation of the bullary has just been published at Rome, containing
several decrees of this congregation, there is not one that announces
a fulfilment of this illusory promise,--a promise imagined by a
correspondent to French newspapers, but never given by the inquisitors
themselves.And as there is no proof that they have yet abstained from
torture, there is a large amount of circumstantial evidence that they
have delighted themselves in death.When public burnings
became inexpedient--as at Goa--did they not make provision for private
executions?For a third time at least the Roman prisons--I am not speaking of those
of the provinces--were broken open, in 1849, after the desertion of Pius
IX., and two prisoners were found there, an aged bishop and a nun.Many persons in Rome reported the event; but instead of copying what is
already before the public, I translate a letter addressed to me by P.
Alessandro Gavazzi, late chaplain-general of the Roman army, in reply
to a few questions which I had put to him.All who have heard his
statements may judge whether his account of facts be not marked with
every note of accuracy.They will believe that his power of oratory DOES
NOT betray him into random declamation.Under date of March 20th, 1852,
he writes thus:

"MY DEAR SIR,--In answering your questions concerning the palace of
Inquisition at Rome, I should say that I can give only a few superficial
and imperfect notes.So short was the time that it remained open to the
public, So great the crowd of persons that pressed to catch a sight of
it, and so intense the horror inspired by that accursed place, that I
could not obtain a more exact and particular impression."I found no instruments of torture, [Footnote: "The gag, the
thumb-screw, and many other instruments of severe torture could be
easily destroyed and others as easily procured.The non-appearance of
instruments is not enough to sustain the current belief that the use of
them is discontinued.So long as there is a secret prison, and while
all the existing standards of inquisitorial practice make torture
an ordinary expedient for extorting information, not even a bull,
prohibiting torture, would be sufficient to convince the world that
it has been discontinued.The practice of falsehood is enjoined on
inquisitors.How, then, could we believe a bull, or decree, if it were
put forth to-morrow, to release them from suspicion, or to screen them
from obloquy?It would not be entitled to belief."--Rev.for they were destroyed at the time of the first French invasion,
and because such instruments were not used afterwards by the modern
Inquisition.I did, however, find, in one of the prisons of the second
court, a furnace, and the remains of a woman's dress.I shall never be
able to believe that that furnace was placed there for the use of the
living, it not being in such a place, or of such a kind, as to be of
service to them.Everything, on the contrary, combines to persuade me
that it was made use of for horrible deaths, and to consume the remains
of the victims of inquisitorial executions.Another object of horror I
found between the great hall of judgment and the luxurious apartment of
the chief jailer (primo custode), the Dominican friar who presides over
this diabolical establishment.This was a deep trap or shaft opening
into the vaults under the Inquisition.As soon as the so-called criminal
had confessed his offence; the second keeper, who is always a Dominican
friar, sent him to the father commissary to receive a relaxation
[Footnote: "In Spain, RELAXATION is delivery to death.In the
established style of the Inquisition it has the same meaning.But in the
common language of Rome it means RELEASE.In the lips of the inquisitor,
therefore, if he used the word, it has one meaning, and another to the
ear of the prisoner."--Rev.With the
hope of pardon, the confessed culprit would go towards the apartment of
the holy inquisitor; but in the act of setting foot at its entrance,
the trap opened, and the world of the living heard no more of him.I
examined some of the earth found in the pit below this trap; it was a
compost of common earth, rottenness, ashes, and human hair, fetid to the
smell, and horrible to the sight and to the thought of the beholder."But where popular fury reached its highest pitch was in the vaults of
St.Pius V. I am anxious that you should note well that this pope was
canonized by the Roman church especially for his zeal against heretics.I will now describe to you the manner how, and the place where, those
vicars of Jesus Christ handled the living members of Jesus Christ, and
show you how they proceeded for their healing.You descend into the
vaults by very narrow stairs.A narrow corridor leads you to the
several cells, which, for smallness and stench, are a hundred times more
horrible than the dens of lions and tigers in the Colosseum.Wandering
in this labyrinth of most fearful prisons, that may be called 'graves
for the living,' I came to a cell full of skeletons without skulls,
buried in lime, and the skulls, detached from the bodies, had been
collected in a hamper by the first visitors.and why were they buried in that place and in that manner?I have heard
some popish priests trying to defend the Inquisition from the charge of
having condemned its victims to a secret death, say that the palace of
the Inquisition was built on a burial-ground, belonging anciently to a
hospital for pilgrims, and that the skeletons found were none other
than those of pilgrims who had died in that hospital.But everything
contradicts this papistical defence.Suppose that there had been a
cemetery there, it could not have had subterranean galleries and
cells, laid out with so great regularity; and even if there had been
such--against all probability--the remains of bodies would have been
removed on laying the foundation of the palace, to leave the space free
for the subterranean part of the Inquisition.Besides, it is contrary to
the use of common tombs to bury the dead by carrying them through a door
at the side; for the mouth of the sepulchre is always at the top.And
again, it has never been the custom in Italy to bury the dead singly in
quick lime; but, in time of plague, the dead bodies have been usually
laid in a grave until it was sufficiently full, and then quick lime has
been laid over them, to prevent pestilential exhalations, by hastening
the decomposition of the infected corpses.This custom was continued,
some years ago, in the cemeteries of Naples, and especially in the daily
burial of the poor.Therefore, the skeletons found in the Inquisition
of Rome could not belong to persons who had died a natural death in
a hospital; nor could any one, under such a supposition, explain the
mystery of all the bodies being buried in lime except the head.It
remains, then, beyond a doubt, that that subterranean vault contained
the victims of one of the many secret martyrdoms of the butcherly
tribunal.The following is the most probable opinion, if it be not
rather the history of a fact:

"The condemned were immersed in a bath of slaked lime, gradually filled
up to their necks.The lime by little and little enclosed the sufferers,
or walled them up alive.As the lime
rose higher and higher, the respiration became more and more painful,
because more difficult.So that what with the suffocation of the smoke,
and the anguish of the compressed breathing, they died in a manner most
horrible and desperate.Some time after their death the heads would
naturally separate from the bodies, and roll away into the hollows made
by the shrinking of the lime.Any other explanation of the feet that may
be attempted will be found improbable and unnatural.You may make what
use you please of these notes of mine, since I can warrant their
truth.I wish that writers, speaking of this infamous tribunal of the
Inquisition, would derive their information from pure history, unmingled
with romance; for so great and so many the historical atrocities of the
Inquisition, that they would more than suffice to arouse the detestation
of a thousand worlds.I know that the popish impostor-priests go about
saying that the Inquisition was never an ecclesiastical tribunal, but
a laic.But you will have shown the contrary in your work, and may also
add, in order quite to unmask these lying preachers, that the palace
of the Inquisition at Rome is under the shadow of the palace of the
Vatican; that the keepers are to this day, Dominican friars; and that
the prefect of the Inquisition at Rome is the Pope in person."I have the honor to be your affectionate Servant,

"ALESSANDRA GAVAZZI.""The Roman parliament decreed the erection of a pillar opposite the
palace of the Inquisition, to perpetuate the memory of the destruction
of that nest of abominations; but before that or any other monument
could be raised, the French army besieged and took the city, restored
the Pope, and with him the tribunal of the faith.Achilli thrown into one of its old prisons, on the 29th of July 1849,
but the violence of the people having made the building less adequate
to the purpose of safe keeping, he was transferred to the castle of
St.Angelo, which had often been employed for the custody of similar
delinquents, and there he lay in close confinement until the 9th of
January, 1850, when the French authorities, yielding to influential
representations from this country assisted him to escape in disguise as
a soldier, thus removing an occasion of scandal, but carefully leaving
the authority of the congregation of cardinals undisputed.Indeed
they first obtained the verbal sanction of the commissary, who saw it
expedient to let his victim go, and hush an outcry."Yet some have the hardihood to affirm that there is no longer any
Inquisition; and as the Inquisitors were instructed to suppress the
truth, to deny their knowledge of cases actually passing through their
hands, and to fabricate falsehoods for the sake of preserving the
SECRET, because the secret was absolutely necessary to the preservation
of their office, so do the Inquisitors in partibus falsify and illude
without the least scruple of conscience, in order to put the people of
this country off their guard."That the Inquisition really exists, is placed beyond a doubt by its
daily action as a visible institution at Rome.But if any one should
fancy that it was abolished after the release of Dr.Achilli, let him
hear a sentence contradictory, from a bull of the Pope himself, Pius IX,
a document that was dated at Rome, August 22, 1851, where the pontiff,
condemning the works of Professor Nuytz, of Turin, says, "after having
taken the advice of the doctors in theology and canon law, AFTER HAVING
COLLECTED THE SUFFRAGES OF OUR VENERABLE BROTHERS THE CARDINALS OF THE
CONGREGATION OF THE SUPREME AND UNIVERSAL INQUISITION."And so recently
as March, 1852, by letters of the Secretariate of State, he appointed
four cardinals to be "members of the Sacred Congregation of the Holy
Roman and Universal Inquisition;" giving incontrovertible evidence that
provision is made for attending to communications of Inquisitors in
partibus from all parts of the world.As the old cardinals die off,
their vacant seats are filled by others.The 'immortal legion' is
punctually recruited."After all, have we in Great Britain, Ireland and the colonies, and our
brethren of the foreign mission stations, any reason to apprehend harm
to, ourselves from the Inquisition as it is?In reply to this question,
let it be observed;

"1.That there are Inquisitors in partibus is not to be denied.That
letters of these Inquisitors are laid before the Roman Inquisition is
equally certain.Even in the time of Leo XII, when the church of
Rome was far less active in the British empire than it is now, some
particular case was always decided on Thursday, when the Pope, in his
character of universal Inquisitor, presided in the congregation.It
cannot be thought that now, in the height of its exultation, daring and
aggression, this congregation has fewer emissaries, or that they are
less active, or less communicative than they were at that time.We
also see that the number is constantly replenished.The cardinals Della
Genga-Sermattei; De Azevedo; Fornari; and Lucciardi have just been added
to it.Besides a cardinal in England, and a delegate in Ireland, there is
both in England and Ireland, a body of bishops, 'natural Inquisitors,'
as they are always acknowledged, and have often claimed to be; and these
natural Inquisitors are all sworn to keep the secret--the soul of the
Inquisition.Since, then, there are Inquisitors in partibus, appointed
to supply the lack of an avowed and stationary Inquisition, and since
the bishops are the very persons whom the court of Rome can best
command, as pledged for such a service, it is reasonable to suppose they
act in that capacity.Some of the proceedings of these bishops confirm the assurance that
there is now an Inquisition in activity in England.* * * The vigilance
exercised over families, also the intermeddling of priests with
education, both in families and schools, and with the innumerable
relations of civil society, can only be traced back to the Inquisitors
in partibus, whose peculiar duty, whether by help of confessors or
familiars, is to worm out every secret of affairs, private or public,
and to organize and conduct measures of repression or of punishment.Where the secular arm cannot be borrowed, and where offenders lie beyond
the reach of excommunication, irregular methods must be resorted to,
not rejecting any as too crafty or too violent.Discontented mobs, or
individual zealots are to be found or bought.What part the Inquisitors
in partibus play in Irish assassinations, or in the general mass of
murderous assaults that is perpetrated in the lower haunts of crime,
it is impossible to say.Under cover of confessional and Inquisitorial
secrets, spreads a broad field of action--a region of mystery--only
visible to the eye of God, and to those'most reverend and most eminent'
guardians of the papacy, who sit thrice every week, in the Minerva
and Vatican, and there manage the hidden springs of Inquisition on the
heretics, schismatics, and rebels, no less than on 'the faithful'
of realms.Who can calculate the extent of their power over those
'religious houses,' where so many of the inmates are but neophytes,
unfitted by British education for the intellectual and moral abnegation,
the surrender of mind and conscience, which monastic discipline
exacts?Yet they must be coerced into submission, and kept under penal
discipline.Who can tell how many of their own clergy are withdrawn
to Rome, and there delated, imprisoned, and left to perish, if not
'relaxed' to death, in punishment of heretical opinions or liberal
practices?We have heard of laymen, too, taken to Rome by force, or
decoyed thither under false pretences there to be punished by the
universal Inquisition; and whatever of incredibility may appear in some
tales of Inquisitorial abduction, the general fact that such abductions
have taken place, seems to be incontrovertible.And now that the
Inquisitors in partibus are distributed over Christendom, and that they
provide the Roman Inquisition with daily work from year's end to year's
end, is among the things most certain,--even the most careless of
Englishmen must acknowledge that we have all reason to apprehend much
evil from the Inquisition as it is.And no Christian can be aware of
this fact, without feeling himself more than ever bound to uphold
the cause of christianity, both at home and abroad, as the only
counteractive of so dire a curse, and the only remedy of so vast an
evil."E. A. Lawrence, writing of "Romanism at Rome," gives us the
following vivid description of the present state of the Roman Church."Next is seen at Rome the PROPAGANDA, the great missionary heart of the
whole masterly system.Noiselessly, by the multiform orders of monks and
nuns, as through so many veins and arteries, it sends out and receives
back its vital fluid.In its halls, the whole world is distinctly
mapped out, and the chief points of influence minutely marked.A kind of
telegraphic communication is established with the remotest stations in
South Africa and Siberia, and with almost every nook in our own land,
to which the myrmidons of Papal power look with the most of fear.It
is through means of this moral galvanic battery, set up in the Vatican,
that the Church of Rome has gained its power of UBIQUITY--has so well
nigh made itself OMNIPOTENT, as well as omnipresent."It is no mean or puny antagonist that strides across the path of a
free, spiritual and advancing Protestantism.And yet, with a simple
shepherd's sling, and the smooth stones gathered from Siloa's brook, God
will give it the victory."Once more let us look, and we shall find at Rome, still working in its
dark, malignant efficiency, the INQUISITION.Men are still made to pass
through fires of this Moloch.This is the grand defensive expedient of
the Papacy, and is the chief tribunal of the States.Its processes are
all as secret as the grave.Its cells are full of dead men's bones.They
call it the Asylum for the poor--a retreat for doubting and distressed
pilgrims, where they may have experience of the parental kindness of
their father the Pope, and their mother the church.Achilli had a trial of this beneficient discipline, when thrown
into the deep dungeon of St.And how many other poor victims of
this diabolical institution are at this moment pining in agony, heaven
knows."In America, we talk about Rome as having ceased to persecute.She holds to the principle as tenaciously as ever.Of the evil spirit of Protestantism she says, "This
kind goeth not out, but by fire."Hence she must hold both the principle and the power of persecution, of
compelling men to believe, or, if they doubt, of putting them to death
for their own good.Take from her this power and she bites the dust."It may perchance be said that the remarks of the Rev.William Rule,
quoted above, refer exclusively to the existing state of things is
England, Ireland, and the colonies.But who will dare to say, after a
careful investigation of the subject, that they do not apply with equal
force to these United States?Has America nothing to fear from the inquisitors--from the Jesuits?Is
it true that the "Inquisition still exists in Rome--that its code is
unchanged--that its emissaries are sent over all the world--that every
nuncio and bishop is an Inquisitor," and is it improbable that, even
now, torture rooms like those described in the foregoing story, may be
found in Roman Catholic establishments in this country?Yes, even here,
in Protestant, enlightened America!Have WE then nothing to fear from
Romanism?But a few days since a gentleman of learning and intelligence
when speaking of this subject, exclaimed, "What have we to do with the
Jesuits?The idea that we have aught
to fear from Romanism, is simply ridiculous!"In reply to this, allow
me to quote the language of the Rev.Manuel J. Gonsalves, leader of the
Madeira Exiles."The time will come when the American people will arise as one man, and
not only abolish the confessional, but will follow the example of many
of the European nations, who had no peace, or rest, till they banished
the Jesuits.These are the men, who bask in the sunbeams of popery, to
whom the pope has entrusted the vast interests of the king of Rome, in
this great Republic.Nine tenths of the Romish priests, now working hard
for their Master the pope, in this country, are full blooded Jesuits.The man of sin who is the head of the mystery of iniquity--through
the advice of the popish bishops now in this country, has selected
the Jesuitical order of priests, to carry on his great and gigantic
operations in the United States of America.Those Jesuits who
distinguish themselves the most in the destruction of Protestant Bible
religion, and who gain the largest number of protestant scholars for
popish schools and seminaries; who win most American converts to their
sect are offered great rewards in the shape of high offices in the
church.John Hughes, the Jesuit Bishop of the New York Romanists, was
rewarded by Pope Pius 9th, with an Archbishop's mitre, for his great,
zeal and success, in removing God's Holy Bible from thirty-eight public
schools in New York, and for procuring a papal school committee, to
examine every book in the hands of American children in the public
schools, that every passage of truth, in those books of history
unpalatable to the pope might be blotted out."Has America then nothing
to do with Romanism?But another gentleman exclaims, "What if Romanism be on the increase in
the United States!Is not their religion as dear to them, as ours is
to us?"M. J. Gonsalves would reply as follows."The
American people have been deceived, in believing THAT POPERY WAS A
RELIGION, not a very good one to be sure, but some kind of one.We might as well call the Archbishop of the
fallen angels, and his crew, a religious body of intelligent beings,
because they believe in an Almighty God, and tremble, as to call the man
of sin and his Jesuits, a body of religious saints.The tree is known
by its fruit, such as 'love, joy, peace, long suffering, gentleness,
goodness, meekness, faith, temperance, brotherly kindness;' and where
the spirit of the Lord is, there is liberty, Christian liberty, giving
to God and man their due unasked.Now we ask, what kind of fruit does
the tree of Popery bear, in any country, that it should claim homage,
and respect, as a good religion?"Such is the language of one who knew so well what popery was, that he
fled from it as from a hell upon earth.In his further remarks upon the horrors of convent life in the United
States, he fully confirms the statements in the foregoing narrative.He
says, "It is time that American gentlemen, who are so much occupied
in business, should think of the dangers of the confessional, and the
miseries endured by innocent, duped, American, imprisoned females in
this free country; and remember that these American ladies who have been
duped and enticed by Jesuitical intrigue and craft, into their female
convents, have no means of deliverance; they cannot write a letter to a
friend without the consent and inspection of the Mother Abbess, who
is always and invariably a female tyrant, a creature in the pay of the
Bishop, and dependent upon the Bishop for her despotic office of power.The poor, unfortunate, imprisoned American female has no means of
redress in her power.She cannot communicate her story of wrong and
suffering to any living being beyond the walls of her prison.She may
have a father, a mother, a dear brother, or a sister, who, if they knew
one-sixteenth part of her wrongs and sufferings, would fly at once to
see her and sympathize with her in her anguish.But the Jesuit confessor
attached to the prison is ever on the alert.Those ladies who appear the
most unhappy, and unreconciled to their prison, are compelled to attend
the confessional every day; and thus the artful Jesuit, by a thousand
cross questions, is made to understand perfectly the state of their
minds.The Lady Porter, or door-keeper and jailor, is always a creature
of the priest's, and a great favorite with the Mother Abbess.Should any
friends call to see an unhappy nun who is utterly unreconciled to her
fate, the Lady Porter is instructed to inform those relatives that the
dear nun they want to see so much, is so perfectly happy, and given up
to heavenly meditations, that she cannot be persuaded to see an earthly
relative.At the same time the Mother Abbess dismisses the relatives
with a very sorrowful countenance, and regrets very much, in appearance,
their disappointment.But the unhappy nun is never informed that her
friends or relatives have called to inquire after her welfare.How
amazing, that government should allow such prisons in the name of
religion!"CONVENT OF THE CAPUCHINS IN SANTIAGO

In a late number of "The American and Foreign Christian Union," we find
the following account of conventual life from a report of a Missionary
in Chile, South America."Now, my brother, let me give you an account related to me by a most
worthy English family, most of the members of which have grown up in the
country, confirmed also by common report, of the Convent of Capuchins,
in Santiago."The number of inmates is limited to thirty-two young ladies.The
admittance fee is $2000.When the nun enters she is dressed like a
bride, in the most costly material that wealth can command.There,
beside the altar of consecration, she devotes herself in the most
solemn, manner to a life of celibacy and mortification of the flesh
and spirit, with the deluded hope that her works will merit a brighter
mansion in the realms above."The forms of consecration being completed, she begins to cast off
her rich veil, costly vestments, all her splendid diamonds and
brilliants--which, in many instances, have cost, perhaps, from ten to
fifteen, or even twenty thousand dollars.Then her beautiful locks are
submitted to the tonsure; and to signify her deadness forever to the
world, she is clothed in a dress of coarse grey cloth, called serge, in
which she is to pass the miserable remnant of her days.The dark sombre
walls of her prison she can sever pass, and its iron-bound doors are
shut forever upon their new, youthful, and sensitive occupant.Rarely,
if ever, is she permitted to speak, and NEVER, NEVER, to see her friends
or The loved ones of home--to enjoy the embraces of a fond mother, or
devoted father, or the smiles of fraternal or sisterly affection.If
ever allowed to speak at all, it is through iron bars where she cannot
be seen, and in the presence of the abbess, to see that no complaint
escapes her lips.However much her bosom may swell with anxiety at the
sound of voices which were once music to her soul, and she may long to
pour out her cries and tears to those who once soothed every sorrow of
her heart; yet not a murmur must be uttered.The soul must suffer
its own sorrows solitary and alone, with none to sympathize, or grant
relief, and none to listen to its moans but the cold gloomy walls of her
tomb.No, no, not even the Gospel of Jesus Christ, that great alleviator
of all the sorrows of the heart, is allowed an entrance there.Besides being condemned to a meagre, insufficient
and unwholesome diet which they themselves must cook, the nuns are
not allowed to speak much with each other, except to say, 'Que morir
tenemos, 'we are to die,' or 'we must die,' and to reply, 'Ya los
sabemos,' 'we know it,' or 'already we know it'

"They pass most of their time in small lonely cells, where they sleep in
a narrow place dug out in the ground, in the shape of a coffin, without
bed of any kind, except a piece of coarse serge spread down; and their
daily dress is their only covering.'Tired
nature's sweet restorer, balmy sleep, no more with his downy pinions
lights on his unsullied with a tear:' FOR EVERY HOUR OF THE TWENTY-FOUR
they are aroused by the bell to perform their 'Ave Maria's,' count their
rosaries, and such other blind devotions as may be imposed.Thus they
drag out a miserable existence, and when death calls the spirit to its
last account, the other nuns dig the grave with their own hands, within
the walls of the convent, and so perform the obsequies of their departed
sister."Thus, I have briefly given you not fiction!but a faithful narrative
of facts in regard to conventual life, and an establishment marked by
almost every form of sin, and yet making pretence of 'perfecting the
saints,' by the free and gentle influences of the gospel of Christ.What is done with the rich vestments and jewels?Where do the priests get all their brilliants to perform high mass
and adorn their processions?Where does all the hair of the saints come from, which is sold in
lockets for high prices as sure preventives of evil?Whose grave has been plundered to obtain RELICS to sell to the
ignorant.Where does the Romish Church obtain her SURPLUS RIGHTEOUSNESS TO
SELL TO THE needy, and not give it like our blessed Lord, 'without money
and without price?'Who is responsible for the FANATICISM that induces a young female
to incarcerate herself?Where is the authority in reason, in revelation, for such a life?"A young lady lately cast herself from the tower, and was dashed in
pieces, being led to do it, doubtless, in desperation.The convents of
this city, of the same order, require the same entrance fee, $2000.Of
course, none but the comparatively rich can avail themselves of this
perfection of godliness."Who will say that this mode of life has not been invented in order to
cut short life as rapidly as possible, that the $2000, with all the rich
diamonds upon initiation, may be repeated as frequently as possible?how true it is, that Romanism is the same merciless, cruel,
diabolical organisation, wherever it can fully develop itself, in
all lands.How truly is it denominated by the pen of inspiration the
'MYSTERY OF INIQUITY,' especially that part of it relating to these
secret institutions, and the whole order of the Jesuits."The editor of the "Christian Union", in his remarks on the above, says,
"Already the fair face of our country is disfigured by the existence
here and there of conventual establishments.At present they do not
show the hideous features which they, at least in some cases, assume in
countries where papal influence and authority are supreme.The genius of
our government and institutions necessarily exerts a restraining power,
which holds them from excesses to which, otherwise, they might run.But
they constitute a part of a system which is strongly at variance with
the interests of humanity, and merely wait the occurrence of favorable
circumstances to visit upon our land all the horrors which they have
inflicted elsewhere."How many conventual establishments there are now in the nation, few
Protestants, it is believed, know.And how many young females, guilty of
no crime against society, and condemned by no law of the land, are shut
up in their walls and doomed to a life which they did not anticipate
when entering them, a life which is more dreadful to them than death,
very few of the millions of our citizens conceive.The majority of our
people have slept over the whole subject, and the indifference thus
manifested has emboldened the priests to posh forward the extension
of the system, and the workmen are now busy in various places in
the construction of additional establishments.But such facts as are
revealed in this article, from the pen of our missionary, in connection
with things that are occurring around us, show that no time should be
lost in examining this whole subject of convents and monasteries, and in
legislating rightly about them."Again, when speaking of papal convents in the United States, the same
talented writer observes, "The time has fully come when Protestants
should lay aside their apathy and too long-cherished indifference in
respect to the movements of Rome in this land.It is time for them to
call to mind the testimony of their fathers, their bitter experiences
from the papal See, and to take effective measures to protect the
inheritance bequeathed to them, that they may hand it down to their
children free from corruption, as pure and as valuable as when they
received it.They should remember that Rome claims never to change, that
what she was in Europe when in the zenith of her power, she will be here
when fairly installed, and has ability to enforce her commands."Her numbers now on our soil, her nearly two thousand priests moving
about everywhere, her colleges and printing-presses, her schools and
convents, and enormous amounts of property held by her bishops, have
served as an occasion to draw out something of her spirit, and to show
that she is ARROGANT AND ABUSIVE TO THE EXTENT OF HER POWER."Scarcely a newspaper issues from her press, but is loaded with abuse of
Protestants and of their religion, and at every available point assaults
are made upon their institutions and laws; and Rome and her institutions
and interests are crowded into notice, and special privileges are loudly
clamored for."All Protestants, therefore, of every name, and of every religious and
political creed, we repeat it, who do not desire to ignore the past, and
to renounce all care or concern for the future, as to their children and
children's children, should lose no time in informing themselves of
the state of things around them in regard to the papacy and its
institutions.They should without delay devote their efforts and
influence to the protection of the country against those Popish
establishments and their usages which have been set up among us without
the authority of law, and under whose crushing weight some of the
nations of Europe have staggered and reeled for centuries, and have now
but little of their former power and glory remaining, and under which
Mexico, just upon our borders, has sunk manifestly beyond the power of
recovery."Let each individual seek to awaken an interest in this matter in
the mind of his neighbor.And if there be papal establishments in
the neighborhood under the names of'schools,''retreats','religions
communities,' or any other designation, which are at variance with, or
are not conformed to, the laws of the commonwealth in which they are
situated, let memorials be prepared and signed by the citizens, and
forwarded immediately to the legislature, praying that they may be
subjected to examination, and required to conform to the laws by which
all Protestant institutions of a public nature are governed."Let us exclude from our national territory all irresponsible
institutions.Let us seek to maintain a government of law, and insist
upon the equality of all classes before it."In closing these extracts, we beg leave to express ourselves in the
words of the Rev.Sunderland, of Washington city, in a sermon
delivered before the American and Foreign Christian Union, at its
anniversary in May, 1856."But new it is asked, 'Why all this tirade against Roman Catholics?'It is not against the unhappy millions that are
ground down under the iron heel of that enormous despotism.They are of
the common humanity, our brethren and kinsmen, according to the flesh.They need the same light instruction and salvation that we need.Like
ourselves they need the one God, the one mediator between God and man,
the man Christ Jesus; and from the heart we love and pity them.We would
grant them all the privileges which we claim to ourselves.We can have
no animosity towards them as men and candidates with ourselves for the
coming judgment.But it is the system under which they are born, and
live, and die, I repeat, which we denounce, and when we shall cease to
oppose it, then let our right hand forget her cunning, and our tongue
cleave to the roof of our mouth.What is it but a dark and terrible
power on earth before which so many horrible memories start up?Why,
sir, look at it!We drag the bones of the grim behemoth out to view, for
we would not have the world forget his ugliness nor the terror he has
inspired.'A tirade against Romanism,' is it?O sir, we remember
the persecutions of Justinian; we remember the days of the Spanish
Inquisition; we remember the reign of 'the Bloody Mary;' we remember
the revocation of the Edict of Nantes; we remember St.Bartholomew;
we remember the murdered Covenanters, Huguenots, and Piedmontese; we
remember the noble martyrs dying for the testimony of the faith along
the ancient Rhine; we remember the later wrath which pursued the
islanders of Madeira, till some of them sought refuge upon these
shores; we remember the Madiai, and we know how the beast ever seeks to
propagate his power, by force where he can, by deception where he must.And when we remember these things, we must protest against the further
vigor and prosperity of this grand Babylon of all.Take it, then, tirade
and all, for so ye must, ye ministers of Rome, sodden with the fumes of
that great deep of abominations!The voice of the Protestant shall never
be hushed; the spirit of Reformation shall never sleep.O, lands of
Farel and of Calvin, of Zwingle and of Luther!O countries where the
trumpet first sounded, marshalling the people to this fearful contest!We have heard the blast rolling still louder down the path of three
hundred years, and in our solid muster-march we come, the children
of the tenth generation.We come a growing phalanx, not with carnal
weapons, but with the armor of the gospel, and wielding the sword of
truth on the right hand and on the left, we say that ANTICHRIST MUST
FALL.Hear it, ye witnesses, and mark the word; by the majesty of the
coming kingdom of Jesus, and by the eternal purpose of Jehovah, THIS
ANTICHRIST MUST FALL."Agony, pure and simple, was the only sensation it produced.When they struck up, we just ran away till the tune was ended--what
tune, familiar or unfamiliar, it was impossible to say.Between us
three, all blessed, or cursed, with musical ears, there existed such
difference of opinion on this head, that decision became vain.And
when at last, as the hour of service approached, little groups began
strolling towards the church, the musicians began a final "God save the
Queen," barely recognisable, a feeling of thankfulness was the only
sensation left.[Illustration: THE FISHERMAN'S DAUGHTER--A CORNISH STUDY.]Now, let me not be hard upon these village Orpheuses.They did their
best, and for a working man to study music in any form is a good and
desirable thing.But whatever is worth doing at all is worth doing
well.The great bane of provincial life is that people have so few
opportunities of finding out when they do _not_ do things well, and so
little ambition to learn to do them better.If these few severe remarks
should spur on that anonymous band to try and emulate the Philharmonic
or the Crystal Palace orchestra, it will be all the better for the
little community at the Lizard.A crowded congregation--not a
seat vacant--listened to the excellent chanting, hymns, and a harvest
anthem, most accurately and correctly sung.The organist too--it was
a pleasure to watch that young man's face and see with what interest
and enthusiasm he entered into it all.Besides the rector, there were
several other clergymen, one of whom, an old man, read the prayers
with an intonation and expression which I have rarely heard equalled,
and another preached what would have been called anywhere a thoroughly
good sermon.All the statelier guests at the Rectory tea--probably
county families (one stout lady had the dignity of a duchess at
least)--"assisted" at this evening service, and behind them was a
throng of humbler folk, among whom we recognised our sole friend here,
John Curgenven.We had passed him at the church door, and he had lifted
his hat with the air of a _preux chevalier_ of the olden time; "more
like King Arthur than ever"--we observed to one another.He, and we, and the aristocratic groups, with a few more of the
congregation, lingered for several minutes after service was over,
admiring the beautiful flowers and fruit.I think I never saw any
decorations so rich or so tasteful.And then, as the organ played us
out with an exceedingly brilliant voluntary, the vision of light and
colour melted away, and we came out upon the quiet churchyard, lying in
the cold, still moonlight.Clear as day, the round silver orb sailing
through a cloudless sky of that deep dark which we know is blue, only
moonlight shows no colours.Oh, Lady Moon, Lady Moon, what a dangerous
night for some of those groups to go walking home in!We saw them in
twos and threes, various young people whom we had got to know by sight,
and criticise, and take an interest in, wandering slowly on through
Lizard Town, and then diverging into quieter paths.For there, in an open space near the two hotels
which co-exist close together--I hope amicably, and divide the tourist
custom of the place--in front of a row of open windows which showed the
remains of a _table d'hote_, and playing lively tunes to a group of
delighted listeners, including some children, who had struck up a merry
dance--stood that terrible wind band!All our sympathy with our fellow-creatures, our
pleasure in watching them enjoy themselves, our interest in studying
human nature in the abstract, nay, even the picturesqueness of the
charming moonlight scene, could not tempt us to stay.We paused a
minute, then put our fingers in our ears and fled.Gradually those
fearful sounds melted away into distance, and left us to the silence of
moonshine, and the sight, now grown familiar, but never less beautiful,
of the far-gleaming Lizard Lights.DAY THE SEVENTH


John Curgenven had said last night, with his air of tender patronising,
half regal, half paternal, which we declared always reminded us of King
Arthur--"Ladies, whenever you settle to go to Kynance, I'll take you."And sure enough there he stood, at eight in the morning, quite a
picture, his cap in one hand, a couple of fishes dangling from the
other--he had brought them as a present, and absolutely refused to be
paid--smiling upon us at our breakfast, as benignly as did the sun.He
came to say that he was at our service till 10 A.M.We did not like venturing in strange and
dangerous ground, or rather sea, without our protector.But this was
our last chance, and such a lovely day."You won't come to any harm, ladies," said the consoling John."I'll
take you by a short cut across the down, much better than the cliff.You can't possibly miss your way: it'll lead you straight to Kynance,
and then you go down a steep path to the Cove.You'll have plenty of
time before the tide comes in to see everything.""Oh yes, miss, there's the Drawing-room, the Dining-room, and the
Kitchen--all capital caves close together; I wouldn't advise you to
swim out far, though.And keep a sharp look out for the tide--it runs
in pretty fast.""Oh, you can easy get on Asparagus Island, miss; it's quite safe.Only
don't try the Devil's Throat--or Hell's Mouth, as some folk call it."Neither name was inviting; but studying our guide-books, we thought we
could manage even without our friend.So, long ere the dew was dried on
the sunshiny down, we all started off together, Curgenven slackening
his quick active steps--very light and most enviably active for a man
of his years--to accommodate us, and conversing courteously with us all
the way.[Illustration: KYNANCE COVE, CORNWALL.]"Ower the muir amang the heather" have I tramped many a mile in
bonnie Scotland, but this Cornish moor and Cornish heather were quite
different.As different as the Cornishman with his bright, frank face,
and his mixture of British honesty and Gallic courtesy, from the Scotch
peasant--equally worthy, but sometimes just a trifle "dour."John had plenty to say for himself, and said it well, with a quiet
independence that there was no mistaking; never forgetting meanwhile to
stop and offer a helping hand over every bit of rough road, puddle, or
bog.He gave us a vivid picture of winter life at the Lizard: when the
little community has to hybernate, like the squirrels and field-mice,
upon its summer savings."Sometimes we don't earn a halfpenny for weeks and months, and then if
we've got nothing to fall back upon it's a bad job, you see, ma'am."I asked him if much money went for drink; they seemed to me a
remarkably sober set at the Lizard."Yes, I think we are; we're obliged to be; we can't spend money at the
public-house, for we've got none to spend.I'm no teetotaller myself,"
added John boldly."I don't dislike a glass of beer now and then, if I
can afford it, and when I can't afford it I can do without it, and if I
do take it I always know when to stop."Ay, that is the crucial test--the knowing when to stop.It is this
which makes all the difference between a good man and a villain, a wise
man and a fool.Self-control--a quality which, guided by conscience and
common sense, is the best possession of any human being.And looking at
the honest fisherman, one felt pretty sure he had his share of it."Now I must leave you, ladies," said he, a great deal sooner than we
wished, for we much liked talking to him."My time's nearly up, and I
mustn't keep my gentleman waiting; he goes out in my boat every day,
and has been a good friend to me.The road's straight before you,
ladies; and there's another party just ahead of you.Follow the track,
and you'll soon be at Kynance.It's a lovely day for the Cove, and I
hope you'll enjoy yourselves."John bared his grey head, with a salutation worthy of some old knight
of the Round Table, and then strode back, in double-quick time, as
active and upright as any young fellow of twenty-five, across the level
down.When, afterwards, I stood one dull winter day
in a London Art Gallery, opposite the _Cornish Lions_, how well I
recalled this day!How truly Brett's picture gives the long roll of
the wave upon the silver sands, the richly-tinted rocks and caves, the
brightness and freshness of everything.And those merry girls beside
me, who had the faculty of enjoying all they had, and all they did,
without regretting what they had not or what they might not do--with
heroic resignation they promised not to attempt to swim in the tempting
smooth water beyond the long rollers.Though knocked down again and
again, they always emerged from the waves with shouts of laughter.Mere
dots they looked to my anxious eyes--a couple of corks tossed hither
and thither on the foaming billows--and very thankful I was to get them
safe back into the "drawing-room," the loveliest of lovely caves.There was no time to lose; by noon our parlour floor--what a fairy
floor it was!of the softest, most delicious sand--would be all covered
with waves.And before then there was a deal to be seen and done, the
Bellows, the Gull Rock, Asparagus Island--even if we left out the
dangerous points with the ugly names that Curgenven had warned us
against.What is there in humanity, certainly in youthful humanity, that if
it can attain its end in two ways, one quiet and decorous, the other
difficult and dangerous, is certain to choose the latter?"We must manage to get you to the Bellows, it is such a curious sight,"
said my girls as they returned from it."Don't be frightened--come
along!"By dint of pulling, pushing, and the help of stick and arm, I came:
stood watching the spout of water which, in certain conditions of the
tide, forces itself through a tiny fissure in the rock with a great
roar, and joined in the childish delight of waiting, minute by minute,
for the biggest spout, the loudest roar.But Asparagus Island (where was no asparagus at all) I totally
declined.Not being a goat or a chamois, I contented myself with
sitting where I could gain the best view of the almost invisible
path by which my adventurous young "kids" disappeared.Happily they
had both steady heads and cool nerves; they were neither rash nor
unconscientious.I knew they would come back as soon as they could.So
I waited patiently, contemplating a fellow-victim who seemed worse off
than myself; a benign-looking clergyman, who kept walking up and down
the soppy sands, and shouting at intervals to two young people, a man
and a woman, who appeared to be crawling like flies along the face of
the rock towards another rock, with a yawning cave and a wide fissure
between.the clergyman cried at the top of his voice."Your young people seem rather venturesome," said I sympathetically.[Illustration: THE STEEPLE ROCK, KYNANCE COVE.]"Not _my_ young people," was the dignified answer."My girls are up
there, on Asparagus Rock, which is easy enough climbing.They promised
not to go farther, and they never disobey their mother and me.I declare he is taking her to the most dangerous part, that
rock where you have to jump--a good jump it is, and if you miss your
footing you are done for, you go right into the boiling waves below.Well, it's no business of mine; she is his own property; he is engaged
to her, but"--

I fear I made some very severe remarks on the folly of a young man who
could thus risk life and limbs--not only his own, but those of his wife
to be; and on the weakness of a girl who could allow herself to be
tempted, even by a lover, into such selfish foolhardiness."They must manage their own affairs," said the old gentleman
sententiously, perhaps not being so much given to preaching (out of the
pulpit) as I was.And very sensible girls they looked, clad in a practical, convenient
fashion, just fitted for scrambling.By them I sent a message to my own
girls, explaining the best descent from Asparagus Island, and repeating
the warning against attempting Hell's Mouth."Yes, you are quite right," said my elderly friend, as we sat down
together on the least uncomfortable stone we could find, and watched
the juniors disappear over the rocks."I like to see girls active and
brave; I never hinder them in any reasonable enjoyment, even though
there may be risk in it--one must run some risk--and a woman may
have to save life as well as a man.But foolhardy bravado I not only
dislike--I _despise_ it."In which sentiments I so entirely agreed that we fraternised there
and then; began talking on all sorts of subjects--some of them the
very serious and earnest subjects that one occasionally drops into by
mere chance, with mere strangers.I recall that half hour on Kynance
Sands as one of the pleasant memories of our tour, though to this day
I have not the remotest idea who my companion was.Except that as soon
as he spoke I recognised the reader whose voice had so struck me in
last night's thanksgiving service; reminding me of Frederick Denison
Maurice, whom this generation is almost beginning to forget, but whom
we elders never can forget.The tide was creeping on now--nay, striding, wave after wave, through
"parlour" and "drawing-room," making ingress and egress alike
impossible.In fact, a newly arrived party of tourists, who had stood
unwisely long contemplating the Bellows, were seen to gaze in despair
from their rock which had suddenly become an island.No chance for them
except to wade--and in a few minutes more they would probably have
to swim ashore.What became of them we did not stay to see, for an
anxious, prudent little voice, always thoughtful for "mother," insisted
on our precipitate flight before the advancing tide.Kynance, lovely as
it is, has its inconveniences.Departing, we met a whole string of tourist-looking people, whom we
benevolently warned that they were too late, at which they did not
seem in the least disappointed.Probably they were one of the numerous
pic-nic parties who come here from Falmouth or Helstone, to spend a
jovial day of eating and drinking, and enjoy the delights of the flesh
rather than the spirit.At any rate the romance and solitude of the place were gone.The quaint
old woman at the serpentine shop--a mild little wooden erection under
the cliff--was being chaffed and bargained with by three youths with
cigars, which defiled the whole air around, and made us take refuge up
the hill.But even there a white umbrella had sprung up like a gigantic
mushroom, and under it sat an energetic lady artist, who, entering at
once into conversation, with a cheerful avidity that implied her not
having talked for a week, informed us of all she was painting, and all
she had meant to paint, where she lodged, and how much she paid for her
lodging--evidently expecting the same confidences from us in return.But we were getting hungry, and between us and dinner was a long
two-miles walk over the steep downs, that were glowing, nay, burning,
under the September sun.So we turned homeward, glad of more than one
rest by the way, and a long pause beside a pretty little stream; where
we were able to offer the immemorial cup of cold water to several
thirsty souls besides ourselves.Some of us by this time were getting
to feel not so young as we had fancied ourselves in the early morning,
and to wish regretfully for Charles and his carriage.However, we got home at last--to find that sad accompaniment of many a
holiday--tidings of sickness and death.Nothing very near us--nothing
that need hurry us home--but enough to sadden us, and make our evening
walk, which we bravely carried out, a far less bright one than that of
the forenoon.The girls had found a way, chiefly on the tops of "hedges," to the
grand rock called Lizard Point.Thither we went, and watched the
sunset--a very fine one; then came back through the village, and made
various purchases of serpentine from John Curgenven's wife, who was
a great deal younger than himself, but not near so handsome or so
original.But a cloud had come over us; it did not, and must not stay--still,
there it was for the time.When the last thing at night I went out into
the glorious moonlight--bright as day--and thought of the soul who had
just passed out of a long and troubled life into the clearness of life
eternal, it seemed as if all was right still.Small cares and worries
dwindled down or melted away--as the petty uglinesses around melted
in the radiance of this glorious harvest moon, which seemed to wrap
one round in a silent peace, like the "garment of praise," which David
speaks about--in exchange for "the spirit of heaviness."DAY THE EIGHTH


And seven days were all we could allow ourselves at the Lizard, if we
meant to see the rest of Cornwall.We began to reckon with sore hearts
that five days were already gone, and it seemed as if we had not seen
half we ought to see, even of our near surroundings."We will take no excursion to-day.We will just have our bath at Housel
Cove and then we will wander about the shore, and examine the Lizard
Lights.Only fancy, our going away to-morrow without having seen the
inside of the Lizard Lights!Oh, I wish we were not leaving so soon.We
shall never like any place as we like the Lizard."Directly after breakfast--and we are
people who never vary from our eight o'clock breakfast, so that we
always see the world in its early morning brightness and freshness--we
went

  "Brushing with hasty steps the dew away,"

along the fields, which led down to Housel or Househole Cove.Before
us, clear in the sunshine, rose the fine headland of Penolver, and
the green <DW72>s of the amphitheatre of Belidden, supposed to be the
remains of a Druidical temple.That, and the chair of Belidden, a
recess in the rock, whence there is a splendid view, with various
archaeological curiosities, true or traditionary, we ought to have
examined, I know.Some of us were content to
rejoice in the general atmosphere of beauty and peace without minute
investigation, and some of us were so eminently practical that "a good
bathe" appeared more important than all the poetry and archaeology in
the world.So we wandered slowly on, rejoicing at having the place all to
ourselves, when we came suddenly upon a tall black figure intently
watching three other black figures, or rather dots, which were climbing
slowly over Penolver.It was our clerical friend of Kynance; with whom, in the natural and
right civility of holiday-makers, we exchanged a courteous good morning.[Illustration: THE LION ROCKS--A SEA IN WHICH NOTHING CAN LIVE.]"Yes, those are my girls up on the cliff there.They have been bathing,
and are now going to walk to Cadgwith.""Then nobody fell into the Devil's Throat at Kynance?They all came
back to you with whole limbs?""Yes," said he smiling, "and they went again for another long walk
in the afternoon.At night, when it turned out to be such splendid
moonlight, they actually insisted on going launce-fishing.Of course
you know about launce-fishing?"I pleaded my utter ignorance of that noble sport."Oh, it is _the_ thing at the Lizard.My boys--and girls too--consider
it the best fun going.The launce is a sort of sand-eel peculiar to
these coasts.It swims about all day, and at night burrows in the sand
just above the waterline, where, when the moon shines on it, you can
trace the silvery gleam of the creature.So you stand up to your ankles
on wet sand, with a crooked iron spear which you dart in and hook him
up, keeping your left hand free to seize him with.""Easy fishing," said I, with a certain pity for the sand-eel.You are apt either to chop him right in
two, or miss him altogether, when off he wriggles in the sand and
disappears.My young people say it requires a practised hand and a
peculiar twist of the wrist, to have any success at all in launce
fishing.It can only be done on moonlight nights--the full moon and
a day or two after--and they are out half the night.They go about
barefoot, which is much safer than soaked shoes and stockings.About
midnight they light a fire on the sand, cook all the fish they have
caught, and have a grand supper, as they had last night.They came home
as merry as crickets about two o'clock this morning.Perhaps you might
not have noticed what a wonderful moonlight night it was?"I had; but it would not have occurred to me to spend it in standing for
hours up to the knees in salt water, catching unfortunate fish.However, tastes differ, and launce-fishing may be a prime delight to
some people; so I faithfully chronicle it, and the proper mode of
pursuing it, as one of the attractions at the Lizard.I am not aware
that it is practised at any other part of the Cornish coast, nor can
I say whether or not it was a pastime of King Arthur and his Knights.One cannot imagine Sir Tristram or Sir Launcelot occupied in spearing a
small sand-eel.The bathing at Housel Cove was delightful as ever.And afterwards we
saw that very rare and beautiful sight, a perfect solar rainbow.Not
the familiar bow of Noah, but a great luminous circle round the sun,
like the halo often seen round the moon, extending over half the sky;
yellow at first, then gradually assuming faint prismatic tints.This
colouring, though never so bright as the ordinary arched rainbow, was
wonderfully tender and delicate.We stood a long time watching it,
till at last it melted slowly out of the sky, leaving behind a sense of
mystery, as of something we had never seen before and might never see
again in all our lives.It was a lovely day, bright and warm as midsummer, tempting us to some
distant excursion; but we had decided to investigate the Lizard Lights.We should have been content to take them for granted, in their purely
poetical phase, as we had watched them night after night.But some of
us were blessed with scientific relatives, who would have despised us
utterly if we had spent a whole week at the Lizard and never gone to
see the Lizard Lights.So we felt bound to do our duty, and admire, if
we could not understand.I chronicle with shame that the careful and
courteous explanations of that most intelligent young man, who met us
at the door of the huge white building, apparently quite glad to have
an opportunity of conducting us through it, were entirely thrown away.We mounted ladders, we looked at Brobdingnagian lamps, we poked into
mysterious machinery for lighting them and for sounding the fog-horn,
we listened to all that was told us, and tried to look as if we took it
in.Very much interested we could not but be at such wonderful results
of man's invention, but as for comprehending!we came away with our
minds as dark as when we went in.I have always found through life that, next to being clever, the safest
thing is to know one's own ignorance and acknowledge it.Therefore let
me leave all description of the astonishing mechanism of the Lizard
Lights--I believe the first experiment of their kind, and not very
long established--to abler pens and more intelligent brains.To see
that young man, scarcely above the grade of a working man, handling
his instruments and explaining them and their uses, seeming to take
for granted that we could understand--which alas!we didn't, not
an atom!--inspired me with a sense of humiliation and awe.Also of
pride at the wonders this generation has accomplished, and is still
accomplishing; employing the gradually comprehended forces of Nature
against herself, as it were, and dominating her evil by ever-new
discoveries and applications of the recondite powers of good.The enormous body of light produced nightly--equal, I think he said,
to 30,000 candles--and the complicated machinery for keeping the
fog-horn continually at work, when even that gigantic blaze became
invisible--all this amount of skill, science, labour, and money,
freely expended for the saving of life, gave one a strong impression of
not only British power but British beneficence.Could King Arthur have
come back again from his sea-engulfed Land of Lyonesse, and stood where
we stood, beside the Lizard Lights, what would he have said to it all?[Illustration: HAULING IN THE BOATS.]Even though we did not understand, we were keenly interested in all we
saw, and still more so in the stories of wrecks which this young man
had witnessed even during the few years, or months--I forget which--of
his stay at the Lizard.He, too, agreed, that the rocks there, called
by the generic name of the Stags, were the most fatal of all on our
coasts to ships outward and homeward bound.Probably because in the
latter case, captain and crews get a trifle careless; and in the
former--as I have heard in sad explanation of many emigrant ships being
lost almost immediately after quitting port--they get drunk.Many of
the sailors are said to come on board "half-seas over," and could the
skilfullest of pilots save a ship with a drunken crew?Be that as it may, the fact remains, that throughout winter almost
every week's chronicle at the Lizard is the same story--wild storms, or
dense fogs, guns of distress heard, a hasty manning of the life-boat,
dragged with difficulty down the steep cliff-road, a brief struggle
with the awful sea, and then, even if a few lives are saved, with the
ship herself all is over."Only last Christmas I saw a vessel go to pieces in ten minutes on the
rocks below there," said the man, after particularising several wrecks,
which seemed to have imprinted themselves on his memory with all their
incidents."Yes, we have a bad time in winter, and the coastguard
men lead a risky life.They are the picked men of the service, and
tolerably well paid, but no money could ever pay them for what they go
through--or the fishermen, who generally are volunteers, and get little
or nothing.""It must be a hard life in these parts, especially in winter," we
observed."Well, perhaps it is, but it's our business, you see."Yes, but not all people do their business, as the mismanagements and
mistakes of this world plainly show.Still, it is a good world, and we felt it so as we strolled along the
sunshiny cliff, talking over all these stories, tragical or heroic,
which had been told us in such a simple matter-of-fact way, as if they
were every-day occurrences.And then, while the young folks went on
"for a good scramble" over Penolver, I sat down for a quiet "think";
that enforced rest, which, as years advance, becomes not painful, but
actually pleasant; in which, if one fails to solve the problems of the
universe, one is prone to con them over, wondering at them all.From the sunny sea and sunny sky, full of a silence so complete that I
could hear every wave as it broke on the unseen rocks below, my mind
wandered to that young fellow among his machinery, with his sickly
eager face and his short cough--indicating that _his_ "business" in
this world, over which he seemed so engrossed, might only too soon
come to an end.Between these apparently eternal powers of Nature,
so strong, so fierce, so irresistible, against which man fought so
magnificently with all his perfection of scientific knowledge and
accuracy of handiwork--and this poor frail human life, which in a
moment might be blown out like a candle, suddenly quenched in darkness,
"there is no skill or knowledge in the grave whither thou goest"--what
a contrast it was!And yet--and yet?--We shall sleep with our fathers, and some of us feel
sometimes so tired that we do not in the least mind going to sleep.But
notwithstanding this, notwithstanding everything without that seems to
imply our perishableness, we are conscious of something within which
is absolutely imperishable.We feel it only stronger and clearer as
life begins to melt away from us; as "the lights in the windows are
darkened, and the daughters of music are brought low."To the young,
death is often a terror, for it seems to put an end to the full, rich,
passionate life beyond which they can see nothing; but to the old,
conscious that this their tabernacle is being slowly dissolved, and yet
its mysterious inhabitant, the wonderful, incomprehensible _me_, is
exactly the same--thinks, loves, suffers, and enjoys, precisely as it
did heaven knows how many years ago--to them, death appears in quite
another shape.He is no longer Death the Enemy, but Death the Friend,
who may--who can tell?--give back all that life has denied or taken
away.He cannot harm us, and he may bless us, with the blessing of
loving children, who believe that, whatever happens, nothing can take
them out of their Father's arms.But I had not come to Cornwall to preach, except to myself now and
then, as this day.My silent sermon was all done by the time the
young folks came back, full of the beauties of their cliff walk, and
their affectionate regrets that I "could never manage it," but must
have felt so dull, sitting on a stone and watching the sheep and the
sea-gulls.I was obliged to confess that I never am "dull,"
as people call it, and love solitude almost as much as society.[Illustration: ENYS DODNAN AND PARDENICK POINTS.]So, each contented in our own way, we went merrily home, to find
waiting for us our cosy tea--the last!--and our faithful Charles, who,
according to agreement, appeared overnight, to take charge of us till
we got back to civilisation and railways."Yes, ladies, here I am," said he with a beaming countenance."And
I've got you the same carriage and the same horse, as you wished, and
I've come in time to give him a good night's rest.Now, when shall you
start, and what do you want to do to-morrow?"Our idea had been to take for our next resting-place Marazion.This
queer-named town had attracted us ever since the days when we learnt
geography.Since, we had heard a good deal about it: how it had
been inhabited by Jewish colonists, who bought tin from the early
Ph[oe]nician workers of the Cornish mines, and been called by them
Mara-Zion--bitter Zion--corrupted by the common people into Market-Jew.Michael's Mount opposite; and attracted
us much more than genteel Penzance.So did a letter we got from the
landlord of its one hotel, promising to take us in, and make us
thoroughly comfortable.Charles declared we could, and even see
a good deal on the road.Mary will be delighted to get another
peep at you ladies, and while I rest the horse you can go in and look
at the old church--it's very curious, they say.And then we'll go on
to Gunwalloe,--there's another church there, close by the sea, built
by somebody who was shipwrecked.But then it's so old and so small.However, we can stop and look at it if you like."His good common sense, and kindliness, when he might so easily have
done his mere duty and taken us the shortest and ugliest route, showing
us nothing, decided us to leave all in Charles's hands, and start at
10 A.M.for Penzance, _via_ Helstone, where we all wished to
stay an hour or two, and find out a "friend," the only one we had in
Cornwall.So all was settled, with but a single regret, that several boating
excursions we had planned with John Curgenven had all fallen through,
and we should never behold some wonderful sea-caves between the Lizard
and Cadgwith, which we had set our hearts upon visiting.Charles fingered his cap with a thoughtful air."I don't see why you
shouldn't, ladies.If I was to go direct and tell John Curgenven to
have a boat ready at Church Cove, and we was to start at nine instead
of ten, and drive there, the carriage might wait while you rowed to
the caves and back; we should still reach Helstone by dinner-time, and
Marazion before dark."And at this addition to his
work Charles looked actually pleased!So--all was soon over, our easy packing done, our bill paid--a very
small one--our goodnights said to the kindly handmaid, Esther, who
hoped we would come back again some time, and promised to keep the
artistic mural decorations of our little parlour in memory of us.My
young folks went to bed, and then, a little before midnight, when all
the house was quiet, I put a shawl over my head, unlatched the innocent
door--no bolts or bars at the Lizard--and went out into the night.What a night it was!--mild as summer, clear as day: the full moon
sailing aloft in an absolutely cloudless sky.Not a breath, not a
sound--except the faint thud-thud of the in-coming waves, two miles
off, at Kynance, the outline of which, and of the whole coast, was
distinctly visible.A silent earth, lying under a silent heaven.Looking up, one felt almost like a disembodied soul, free to cleave
through infinite space and gain--what?Is it human or divine, this ceaseless longing after something never
attained, this craving after the eternal life, which, if fully believed
in, fully understood, would take all the bitterness out of this life?But so much is given, and all given is so infinitely good, except where
we ourselves turn it into evil, that surely more, and better, will be
given to us by and by.Those only truly enjoy life who fear not death:
who can say of the grave as if it were their bed: "I will lay me down
in peace and take my rest, for it is Thou only, O God, who makest me to
dwell in safety."DAY THE NINTH


And our last at the Lizard, which a week ago had been to us a mere word
or dot in a map; now we carried away from it a living human interest in
everything and everybody.Esther bade us a cordial farewell: Mrs.Curgenven, standing at the
door of her serpentine shop, repeated the good wishes, and informed
us that John and his boat had already started for Church Cove.As we
drove through the bright little Lizard Town, and past the Church of
Landewednack, wondering if we should ever see either again, we felt
quite sad.Leaving the carriage and Charles at the nearest point to the Cove, we
went down the steep descent, and saw John rocking in his boat, and
beckoning to us with a bland and smiling countenance.But between us
and him lay a sort of causeway, of the very roughest rocks, slippery
with sea-weed, and beat upon by waves--such waves!Yet clearly, if we
meant to get into the boat at all, we must seize our opportunity and
jump in between the flux and reflux of that advancing tide.I am not a coward: I love boats, and was well used to them in my youth,
but now--my heart misgave me.There were but two alternatives--to
stop the pleasure of the whole party, and leave Cornwall with these
wonderful sea-caves unseen, or to let my children go alone.Neither was
possible; so I hailed a sturdy youth at work hard by, and asked him if
he would take charge of an old lady across the rocks.He grinned from
ear to ear, but came forward, and did his duty manfully and kindly.My
young folks, light as feathers, bounded after; and with the help of
John Curgenven, chivalrous and careful as ever, we soon found ourselves
safely in the boat.[Illustration: JOHN CURGENVEN FISHING.]"Here we go up, up, up, and here we go down,
down, down," was the principle of our voyage, the most serious one we
ever took in an open boat with a single pair of oars.Never did I see
such waves,--at least, never did I float upon them, in a boat that went
tossing like a bit of cork out into the open sea.John seemed not to mind them in the least.His strong arms swept the
boat along, and he still found breath to talk to us, pointing out the
great gloomy cliffs we were passing under, and telling us stories of
wrecks, the favourite theme--and no wonder.This sunshiny morning that iron-bound coast looked awful enough; what
must it have looked like, on the winter night when the emigrant ship
_Brest_ went down!"Yes, it was about ten o'clock at night," said John."I was fast asleep
in bed, but they knocked me up; I got on my clothes and was off in
five minutes.They are always glad enough to get us fishermen, the
coastguard are.Mine was the first boat-load we brought ashore; we
would only take women and children that time.They were all in their
night-gowns, and they couldn't speak a word of English, but we made
them understand somehow.One woman threw her three children down to me,
and stayed behind on the wreck with two more.""Oh, no, they were very quiet, dazed like.Some of them seemed to be
saying their prayers.But they made no fuss at all, not even the little
ones.They lay down in the bottom of the boat, and we rowed ashore
as fast as we could, to Cadgwith.Then we rowed back and fetched two
boatloads more.We saved a lot of lives that wreck, but only their
lives; they had scarcely a rag of clothes on, and some of the babies
were as naked as when they were born.""Everybody: we always do it," answered John, as if surprised at
the question."The fishermen's cottages were full, and so was the
parsonage.We gave them clothes, and kept them till they could be sent
away.Yes, it was an awful night; I got something to remember it by,
here."He held out his hand, from which we noticed half of one finger was
missing."It got squeezed off with a rope somehow.I didn't heed it much at
the time," said John carelessly."But look, we're at the first of the
caves.I'll row in close, ladies, and let you see it."So we had to turn our minds from the vision of the wreck of the
_Brest_, which John's simple words made so terribly vivid, to examine
Raven's Ugo, and Dolor Ugo; _ugo_ is Cornish for cave.Over the
entrance of the first a pair of ravens have built from time immemorial.It is just accessible, the opening being above the sea-line, and hung
with quantities of sea-ferns.Here in smuggling days, many kegs of
spirits used to be secreted: and many a wild drama no doubt has been
acted there--daring encounters between smugglers and coastguard men,
not bloodless on either side.Dolor Ugo is now inaccessible and unusable.Its only floor is of
heaving water, a deep olive green, and so clear that we could see the
fishes swimming about pursuing a shoal of launce.Its high-vaulted roof
and sides were tinted all colours--rose-pink, rich dark brown, and
purple.The entrance was wide enough to admit a boat, but it gradually
narrowed into impenetrable darkness.How far inland it goes no one can
tell, as it could only be investigated by swimming, a rather dangerous
experiment.Boats venture as far as the daylight goes; and it is a
favourite trick of the boatman suddenly to fire off a pistol, which
reverberates like thunder through the mysterious gloom of the cave.A solemn place; an awful place, some of us thought, as we rowed in, and
out again, into the sunshiny open sea.Which we had now got used to;
and it was delicious to go dancing like a feather up and down, trusting
to John Curgenven's stout arm and fearless, honest face.We felt sad to
think this would be our last sight of him and of the magnificent Lizard
coast.But the minutes were lessening, and we had some way still to
row.Also to land, which meant a leap between the waves upon slippery
sea-weedy rocks.In silent dread I watched my children accomplish this
feat, and then--

Well, it is over, and I sit here writing these details.But I would
not do it again, not even for the pleasure of revisiting Dolor Ugo and
having a row with John Curgenven.he looked relieved when he saw "the old lady" safe on
_terra firma_, and we left him waving adieux, as he "rocked in his
boat in the bay."May his stout arms and kindly heart long remain to
him!May his summer tourists be many and his winter shipwrecks few!Mary moved to the bathroom.I am sure he will always do his duty, and see that other people do
theirs, or, like the proverbial Cornishmen, he "will know the reason
why."Charles was ready; waiting patiently in front of a blacksmith's shop.fate had overtaken us in the shape of an innocent leak in
John Curgenven's boat; nothing, doubtless, to him, who was in the habit
of baling it out with his boots, and then calmly putting them on again,
but a little inconvenient to us.To drive thirty miles with one's
garments soaked up to the knees was not desirable.There was a cottage close by, whence came the gleam of a delicious fire
and the odour of ironing clothes.We went in: the mistress, evidently
a laundress, advanced and offered to dry us--which she did, chattering
all the while in the confidential manner of country folks.A hard working, decent body she was, and as for her house, it was a
perfect picture of cleanliness and tidiness.Its two rooms, kitchen and
bedroom, were absolutely speckless.When we noticed this, and said we
found the same in many Cornish cottages; she almost seemed offended at
the praise."Oh, that's nothing, ma'am.We hereabouts all likes to have our places
tidy.Mine's not over tidy to-day because of the washing.But if you was to come of a Sunday.Her eye
caught something in a dark corner, at which she flew, apron in hand."I
declare, I'm quite ashamed.I didn't think we had one in the house."Dried, warmed, and refreshed, but having found the greatest difficulty
in inducing the good woman to receive any tangible thanks for her
kindness, we proceeded on our journey; going over the same ground which
we had traversed already, and finding Pradenack Down as bleak and
beautiful as ever.Our first halt was at the door of Mary Mundy, who,
with her unappreciated brother, ran out to meet us, and looked much
disappointed when she found we had not come to stay."But you will come some time, ladies, and I'll make you so comfortable.And you'll give my duty to the professor"--it was vain to explain that
four hundred miles lay between our home and his.He was a very nice gentleman, please'm.I shall be delighted to
see him again, please'm," &c., &c.

We left the three--Mary, her brother, and Charles--chattering together
in a dialect which I do not attempt to reproduce, and sometimes could
hardly understand.Us, the natives indulged with their best English,
but among themselves they talked the broadest Cornish.It was a very old church, and a preternaturally old beadle showed it in
a passive manner, not recognising in the least its points of interest
and beauty, except some rows of open benches with ancient oak backs,
wonderfully carved."Our vicar dug them up from under the flooring and turned them into
pews.There was a gentleman here the other day who said there was
nothing like them in all England."Most curious, in truth, they were, and suited well the fine old
building--a specimen of how carefully and lavishly our forefathers
built "for God."We, who build for ourselves, are rather surprised
to find in out-of-the-way nooks like this, churches that in size and
adornment must have cost years upon years of loving labour as well as
money.It was pleasant to know that the present incumbent, a man of
archaeological tastes, appreciated his blessings, and took the utmost
care of his beautiful old church.even though he cannot
boast the power of his predecessor, the Reverend Thomas Flavel, who
died in 1682, and whose monument in the chancel really expresses the
sentiments--in epitaph--of the period:

  "Earth, take thine earth; my sin, let Satan have it;
  The world my goods; my soul my God who gave it.For from these four, Earth, Satan, World, and God,
  My flesh, my sin, my goods, my soul, I had."But it does not mention that the reverend gentleman was the best
_ghost-layer_ in all England, and that when he died his ghost also
required to be laid, by a brother clergyman, in a spot on the down
still pointed out by the people of Mullion, who, being noted for
extreme longevity, have passed down this tradition from generation
to generation, with an earnest credulity that we of more enlightened
counties can hardly understand.From Mullion we went on to Gunwalloe.Its church, "small and old," as
Charles had depreciatingly said, had been so painfully "restored,"
and looked so bran-new and uninteresting that we contented ourselves
with a distant look.It was close to the sea--probably built on the
very spot where its pious founder had been cast ashore.The one curious
point about it was the detached belfry, some yards distant from the
church itself.It sat alone in a little cove, down which a sluggish
river crawled quietly seaward.A sweet quiet place, but haunted, as
usual, by tales of cruel shipwrecks--of sailors huddled for hours on
a bit of rock just above the waves, till a boat could put out and
save the few survivors; of sea treasures continually washed ashore
from lost ships--Indian corn, coffee, timber, dollars--many are still
found in the sand after a storm.And one treasure more, of which the
recollection is still kept at Gunwalloe, "a little dead baby in its cap
and night-gown, with a necklace of coral beads."Our good horse, with the dogged
persistency of Cornish horses and Cornish men, plodded on mile after
mile.Sometimes for an hour or more we did not meet a living soul;
then we came upon a stray labourer, or passed through a village where
healthy-looking children, big-eyed, brown-faced, and dirty-handed,
picturesque if not pretty, stared at us from cottage doors, or from the
gates of cottage gardens full of flowers and apples.Hungry and thirsty, we could not
resist them.After passing several trees, hung thickly with delicious
fruit, we attacked the owner of one of them, a comely young woman, with
a baby in her arms and another at her gown."Oh yes, ma'am, you may have as many apples as you like, if your young
ladies will go and get them."And while they did it, she stood talking by the carriage door, pouring
out to me her whole domestic history with a simple frankness worthy of
the golden age."No, really I couldn't," putting back my payment--little enough-- for
the splendid basket of apples which the girls brought back in triumph."This is such a good apple year; the pigs would get them if the young
ladies didn't.You're kindly welcome to them--well then, if you are
determined, say sixpence."On which magnificent "sixpenn'orth," we lived for days!Indeed I think
we brought some of it home as a specimen of Cornish fruit and Cornish
liberality.[Illustration: THE ARMED KNIGHT AND THE LONG SHIP'S LIGHTHOUSE.]Helstone was reached at last, and we were not sorry for rest and food
in the old-fashioned inn, whence we could look out of window, and
contemplate the humours of the little town, which doubtless considered
itself a very great one.It was market day, and the narrow street was
thronged with beasts and men--the latter as sober as the former,
which spoke well for Cornwall.Sober and civil too was every one we
addressed in asking our way to the house of our unknown friend, whose
only address we had was Helstone.But he seemed well known in the town,
though neither a rich man, nor a great man, nor--No, I cannot say he
was not a clever man, for in his own line, mechanical engineering, he
must have been exceedingly clever.And he was what people call "a great
character;" would have made such an admirable study for a novelist,
manipulated into an unrecognisable ideal--the only way in which it is
fair to put people in books.When I saw him I almost regretted that I
write novels no more.We passed through the little garden--all ablaze with autumn colour,
every inch utilised for either flowers, vegetables, or fruit--went into
the parlour, sent our cards and waited the result.In two minutes our friend appeared, and gave us such a welcome!But to
explain it I must trench a little upon the sanctities of private life,
and tell the story of this honest Cornishman.When still young he went to Brazil, and was employed by an English
gold-mining company there, for some years.Afterwards he joined
an engineering firm, and superintended dredging, the erection of
saw-mills, &c., finally building a lighthouse, of which latter work he
had the sole charge, and was exceedingly proud.His conscientiousness,
probity, and entire reliableness made him most valuable to the
firm; whom he served faithfully for many years.When they, as well
as himself, returned to England, he still kept up a correspondence
with them, preserving towards every member of the family the most
enthusiastic regard and devotion.He rushed into the parlour, a tall, gaunt, middle-aged man, with a
shrewd, kindly face, which beamed all over with delight, as he began
shaking hands indiscriminately, saying how kind it was of us to come,
and how welcome we were.It was explained which of us he had specially to welcome, the others
being only humble appendages, friends of the family, this well-beloved
family, whose likenesses for two generations we saw everywhere about
the room."Yes, miss, there they all are, your dear grandfather" (alas, only a
likeness now!They were all so good to
me, and I would do anything for them, or for any one of their name.If
I got a message that they wanted me for anything, I'd be off to London,
or to Brazil, or anywhere, in half-an-hour."added the good man when the rapture and
excitement of the moment had a little subsided, and his various
questions as to the well-being of "the family" had been asked and
answered."You have dined, you say, but you'll have a cup of tea.My
wife (that's the little maid I used to talk to your father about, miss;
I always told him I wouldn't stay in Brazil, I must go back to England
and marry my little maid), my wife makes the best cup of tea in all
Cornwall.And there entered, in afternoon gown and cap, probably just put on, a
middle-aged, but still comely matron, who insisted that, even at this
early hour--3 P.M.--to get a cup of tea for us was "no trouble
at all.""Indeed, she wouldn't think anything a trouble, no more than I should,
miss, if it was for your family.It was here suggested that they were not a "forgetting" family.Nor
was he a man likely to be soon forgotten.While the cup of tea, which
proved to be a most sumptuous meal, was preparing, he took us all over
his house, which was full of foreign curiosities, and experimental
inventions.One, I remember, being a musical instrument, a sort of
organ, which he had begun making when a mere boy, and taken with him
all the way to Brazil and back.It had now found refuge in the little
room he called his "workshop," which was filled with odds and ends that
would have been delightful to a mechanical mind.He expounded them with
enthusiasm, and we tried not to betray an ignorance, which in some of
us would have been a sort of hereditary degradation.they were clever--your father and your uncle!--and how proud we
all were when we finished our lighthouse, and got the Emperor to light
it up for the first time.Look here, ladies, what do you think this is?"He took out a small parcel, and solemnly unwrapped from it fold after
fold of paper, till he came to the heart of it--a small wax candle!"This was the candle the Emperor used to light our lighthouse.I've
kept it for nearly thirty years, and I'll keep it as long as I live.Every year on the anniversary of the day I light it, drink his
Majesty's health, and the health of all your family, miss, and then I
put it out again.So"--carefully re-wrapping the relic in its numerous
envelopes--"so I hope it will last my time."Here the mistress came behind her good man, and they exchanged a
smile--the affectionate smile of two who had never been more than two,
Darby and Joan, but all sufficient to each other.How we got through it I hardly know,
but travelling is hungry work, and the viands were delicious.The
beneficence of our kind hosts, however, was not nearly done."Come, ladies, I'll show you my garden, and--(give me a basket and the
grape-scissors,)" added he in a conjugal aside.Which resulted in our
carrying away with us the biggest bunches in the whole vinery, as well
as a quantity of rosy apples, stuffed into every available pocket and
bag."Nonsense, nonsense," was the answer to vain remonstrances."D'ye
think I wouldn't give the best of everything I had to your family?How your father used to laugh at me about my
little maid!Oh yes, I'm glad I came
home.And now your father and your uncle are home too, and perhaps some
day they'll come to see me down here--wouldn't it be a proud day for
me!It was touching, and rare as touching, this passionate personal
fidelity.It threw us back, at least such of us as were sentimentally
inclined, upon that something in Cornish nature which found its
exposition in Arthur and his faithful knights, down to "bold Sir
Bedevere," and apparently, is still not lost in Cornwall.With a sense of real regret, feeling that it would be long ere we
might meet his like--such shrewd simplicity, earnest enthusiasm, and
exceeding faithfulness--we bade good-bye to the honest man; leaving him
and his wife standing at their garden-gate, an elderly Adam and Eve,
desiring nothing outside their own little paradise.Which of us could
say more, or as much?Gratefully we "talked them over," as we drove on through the pretty
country round Helstone--inland country; for we had no time to go and
see the Loe Pool, a small lake, divided from the sea by a bar of sand.This is supposed to be the work of the Cornwall man-demon, Tregeagle;
and periodically cut through, with solemn ceremonial, by the Mayor of
Helstone, when the "meeting of the waters," fresh and salt, is said to
be an extremely curious sight.But we did not see it, nor yet Nonsloe
House, close by, which is held by the tenure of having to provide a
boat and nets whenever the Prince of Wales or the Duke of Cornwall
wishes to fish in the Loe Pool.A circumstance which has never happened
yet, certainly!Other curiosities _en route_ we also missed, the stones of
Tremenkeverne, half a ton each, used as missiles in a notable fight
between two saints, St.Just of the Land's End, and St.Keverne of the
Lizard, and still lying in a field to prove the verity of the legend.Also the rock of Goldsithney, where, when the "fair land of Lyonesse"
was engulfed by the sea, an ancestor of the Trevelyans saved himself by
swimming his horse, and landing; and various other remarkable places,
with legends attached, needing much credulity, or imagination, to
believe in.But, fearing to be benighted ere reaching Marazion, we passed them all,
and saw nothing more interesting than the ruins of disused tin mines,
which Charles showed us, mournfully explaining how the mining business
had of late years drifted away from Cornwall, and how hundreds of the
once thriving community had been compelled to emigrate or starve.As we
neared Marazion, these melancholy wrecks with their little hillocks of
mining debris rose up against the evening sky, the image of desolation.Michael's Mount, the picture in little of Mont St.Michel,
in Normandy, appeared in the middle of Mount's Bay.Lastly, after
a gorgeous sunset, in a golden twilight and silvery moonlight, we
entered Marazion;-and found it, despite its picturesque name, the most
commonplace little town imaginable!We should have regretted our rash decision, and gone on to Penzance,
but for the hearty welcome given us at a most comfortable and home-like
inn, which determined us to keep to our first intention, and stay.So, after our habit of making the best of things, we walked down to the
ugly beach, and investigated the dirty-looking bay--in the lowest of
all low tides, with a soppy, sea-weedy causeway running across to St.By advice of Charles, we made acquaintance with an old
boatman he knew, a Norwegian who had drifted hither--shipwrecked, I
believe--settled down and married an English woman, but whose English
was still of the feeblest kind.However, he had an honest face; so we
engaged him to take us out bathing early to-morrow."Wouldn't you
like to row round the Mount?--When you've had your tea, I'll come back
for you, and help you down to the shore--it's rather rough, but nothing
like what you have done, ma'am," added he encouragingly."And it will
be bright moonlight, and the Mount will look so fine."So, the spirit of adventure conquering our weariness, we went.When
I think how it looked next morning--the small, shallow bay, with its
toy-castle in the centre, I am glad our first vision of it was under
the glamour of moonlight, with the battlemented rock throwing dark
shadows across the shimmering sea.In the mysterious beauty of that
night row round the Mount, we could imagine anything; its earliest
inhabitant, the giant Cormoran, killed by that "valiant Cornishman,"
the illustrious Jack; the lovely St.Keyne, a king's daughter, who came
thither on pilgrimage; and, passing down from legend to history, Henry
de la Pomeroy, who, being taken prisoner, caused himself to be bled to
death in the Castle; Sir John Arundel, slain on the sands, and buried
in the Chapel; Perkin Warbeck's unfortunate wife, who took refuge at
St.And so on, and so on,
through the centuries, to the family of St.Aubyn, who bought it in
1660, and have inhabited it ever since."Very nice people," we heard
they were; who have received here the Queen, the Prince of Wales, and
other royal personages.Yet, looking up as we rowed under the gloomy rock, we could fancy his
giant ghost sitting there, on the spot where he killed his wife, for
bringing in her apron greenstone, instead of granite, to build the
chapel with.Which being really built of greenstone the story must be
true!What a pleasure it is to be able to believe anything!Some of us could have stayed out half the night, floating along in the
mild soft air and dreamy moonlight, which made even the commonplace
little town look like a fairy scene, and exalted St.Michael's Mount
into a grand fortress, fit for its centuries of legendary lore--but
others preferred going to bed.Not however without taking a long look out
of the window upon the bay, which now, at high tide, was one sheet of
rippling moon-lit water, with the grim old Mount, full of glimmering
lights like eyes, sitting silent in the midst of the silent sea.[Illustration: CORNISH FISHERMAN.]DAY THE TENTH


I cannot advise Marazion as a bathing place.What a down-come from the
picturesque vision of last night, to a small ugly fishy-smelling beach,
which seemed to form a part of the town and its business, and was
overlooked from everywhere!Yet on it two or three family groups were
evidently preparing for a dip, or rather a wade of about a quarter of a
mile in exceedingly dirty sea water."This will never do," we said to our old Norwegian."You must row us to
some quiet cove along the shore, and away from the town."He nodded his head, solemn and mute as the dumb boatman of dead Elaine,
rowed us out seaward for about half-a-mile, and then proceeded to
fasten the boat to a big stone, and walk ashore.The water still did
not come much above his knees--he seemed quite indifferent to it.Well, we could but do at Rome as the Romans do.Toilette in an open
boat was evidently the custom of the country.And the sun was warm, the
sea safe and shallow.Indeed, so rapidly did it subside, that by the
time the bath was done, we were aground, and had to call at the top of
our voices to our old man, who sat, with his back to us, dim in the
distance, on another big stone, calmly smoking the pipe of peace."We'll not try this again," was the unanimous resolve, as, after
politely declining a suggestion that "the ladies should walk ashore--"
did he think we were amphibious?--we got ourselves floated off at last,
and rowed to the nearest landing point, the entrance to St.Probably nowhere in England is found the like of this place.Such
a curious mingling of a mediaeval fortress and modern residence; of
antiquarian treasures and everyday business; for at the foot of the
rock is a fishing village of about thirty cottages, which carries
on a thriving trade; and here also is a sort of station for the tiny
underground-railway, which worked by a continuous chain, fulfils the
very necessary purpose (failing Giant Cormoran, and wife) of carrying
up coals, provisions, luggage, and all other domestic necessaries to
the hill top.Thither we climbed by a good many weary steps, and thought, delightful
as it may be to dwell on the top of a rock in the midst of the sea,
like eagles in an eyrie, there are certain advantages in living on a
level country road, or even in a town street.Aubyns manage when they go out to dinner?Two years afterwards,
when I read in the paper that one of the daughters of the house,
leaning over the battlements, had lost her balance and fallen down,
mercifully unhurt, to the rocky <DW72> below--the very spot where we
to-day sat so quietly gazing out on the lovely sea view--I felt with
a shudder that on the whole, it would be a trying thing to bring up a
young family on St.Still, generation after generation of honourable St.Aubyns have
brought up their families there, and oh!How fresh, and yet mild blew the soft sea-wind outside of it, and
inside, what endless treasures there were for the archaeological mind!The chapel alone was worth a morning's study, even though shown--odd
anachronism--by a footman in livery, who pointed out with great gusto
the entrance to a vault discovered during the last repairs, where was
found the skeleton of a large man--his bones only--no clue whatever as
to who he was or when imprisoned there.The "Jeames" of modern days
told us this tale with a noble indifference.Nothing of the kind was
likely to happen to him.Further still we were fortunate enough to penetrate, and saw the Chevy
Chase Hall, with its cornice of hunting scenes, the drawing-room, the
school-room--only fancy learning lessons there, amidst the veritable
evidence of the history one was studying!And perhaps the prettiest bit
of it all was our young guide, herself a St.Aubyn, with her simple
grace and sweet courtesy, worthy of one of the fair ladies worshipped
by King Arthur's knights.[Illustration: THE SEINE BOAT--A PERILOUS MOMENT.]We did not like encroaching on her kindness, though we could have
stayed all day, admiring the curious things she showed us.So we
descended the rock, and crossed the causeway, now dry, but very rough
walking--certainly St.Michael's Mount has its difficulties as a modern
dwelling-house--and went back to our inn.For, having given our
horse a forenoon's rest, we planned a visit to that spot immortalised
by nursery rhyme--

  "As I was going to St.Ives
  I met a man with seven wives.Each wife had seven sacks;
  Each sack had seven cats;
  Each cat had seven kits;
  Kits, cats, sacks, and wives,--
  How many were there going to St.--One; and after we had been there, we felt sure he never went again!There were two roads, we learnt, to that immortal town; one very good,
but dull; the other bad--and beautiful.We chose the latter, and never
repented.Nor, in passing through Penzance, did we repent not having taken up our
quarters there.It was pretty, but so terribly "genteel," so extremely
civilised.Glancing up at the grand hotel, we thought with pleasure of
our old-fashioned inn at Marazion, where the benign waiter took quite
a fatherly interest in our proceedings, even to giving us for dinner
our very own blackberries, gathered yesterday on the road, and politely
hindering another guest from helping himself to half a dishful, as
"they belonged to the young ladies."Truly, there are better things in
life than fashionable hotels.But the neighbourhood of Penzance is lovely.Shrubs and flowers such
as one sees on the shores of the Mediterranean grew and flourished in
cottage-gardens, and the forest trees we drove under, whole avenues
of them, were very fine; gentlemen's seats appeared here and there,
surrounded with the richest vegetation, and commanding lovely views.As
the road gradually mounted upwards, we saw, clear as in a panorama, the
whole coast from the Lizard Point to the Land's End,--which we should
behold to-morrow.For, hearing that every week-day about a hundred tourists in carriages,
carts, and omnibuses, usually flocked thither, we decided that the
desire of our lives, the goal of our pilgrimage, should be visited
by us on a Sunday.We thought that to drive us thither in solitary
Sabbatic peace would be fully as good for Charles's mind and morals as
to hang all day idle about Marazion; and he seemed to think so himself.Therefore, in prospect of to-morrow, he dealt very tenderly with his
horse to-day, and turned us out to walk up the heaviest hills, of which
there were several, between Penzance and Castle-an-Dinas."There it is," he said at last, stopping in the midst of a wide moor
and pointing to a small building, sharp against the sky."The carriage
can't get further, but you can go on, ladies, and I'll stop and gather
some blackberries for you."For brambles, gorse bushes, and clumps of fading heather, with one or
two small stunted trees, were now the only curiosities of this, King
Arthur's famed hunting castle, and hunting ground, which spread before
us for miles and miles.Passing a small farm-house, we made our way to
the building Charles pointed out, standing on the highest ridge of the
promontory, whose furthest point is the Land's End.Standing there, we
could see--or could have seen but that the afternoon had turned grey
and slightly misty--the ocean on both sides.Inland, the view seemed
endless.Roughtor and Brown Willy, two Dartmoor hills, are said to be
visible sometimes.Nearer, little white dots of houses show the mining
districts of Redruth and Camborne.A single wayfarer, looking like a
working man in his Sunday best going to visit friends, but evidently
tired, as if he had walked for miles, just glanced at us, and passed
on.We stood, all alone, on the very spot where many a time must have
stood King Arthur, Queen Guinevere, Sir Launcelot, and the other
knights--or the real human beings, whether barbarian or not, who formed
the originals of those mythical personages.Nothing was left but a common-place little tower,
built up of the fragments of the old castle, and a wide, pathless
moor, over which the wind sighed, and the mist crept.No memorial
whatever of King Arthur, except the tradition--which time and change
have been powerless to annihilate--that such a man once existed.The
long vitality which the legend keeps proves that he must have been
a remarkable man in his day.Romance itself cannot exist without a
foundation in reality.So I preached to my incredulous juniors, who threw overboard King
Arthur and took to blackberry-gathering; and to conversation with a
most comely Cornishwoman, milking the prettiest of Cornish cows in the
lonely farm-yard, which was the only sign of humanity for miles and
miles.We admired herself and her cattle; we drank her milk, offering
for it the usual payment.But the picturesque milkmaid shook her head
and demanded just double what even the dearest of London milk-sellers
would have asked for the quantity.Which sum we paid in silence,
and I only record the fact here in order to state that spite of our
foreboding railway friend at Falmouth, this was the only instance in
which we were ever "taken in," or in the smallest degree imposed upon,
in Cornwall.Another hour, slowly driving down the gradual <DW72> of the country,
through a mining district much more cheerful than that beyond Marazion.The mines were all apparently in full work, and the mining villages
were pretty, tidy, and cosy-looking, even picturesque.Ives the houses had quite a foreign look, but when we descended to
the town, its dark, narrow streets, pervaded by a "most ancient and
fish-like smell," were anything but attractive.As was our hotel, where, as a matter of duty, we ordered tea, but
doubted if we should enjoy it, and went out again to see what little
there seemed to be seen, puzzling our way through the gloomy and not
too fragrant streets, till at last in despair we stopped a bland,
elderly, Methodist-minister-looking gentleman, and asked him the way to
the sea."You're strangers here, ma'am?"I owned the humbling fact, as the inhabitant of St."And is it the pilchard fishery you want to see?A few pilchards have been seen already.There are the boats, the
fishermen are all getting ready.It's a fine sight to see them start.Would you like to come and look at them?"He had turned back and was walking with us down the street, pointing
out everything that occurred to him as noticeable, in the kindest and
civilest way.When we apologised for troubling him, and would have
parted company, our friend made no attempt to go."Oh, I've nothing at all to do, except"--he took out the biggest and
most respectable of watches--"except to attend a prayer-meeting at
half-past six.I should have time to show you the town; we think it is
a very nice little town.I ought to know it; I've lived in it, boy and
man for thirty-seven years.But now I have left my business to my sons,
and I just go about and amuse myself, looking into the shop now and
then just for curiosity.You must have seen my old shop, ladies, if you
came down that street."Which he named, and also gave us his own name, which we had seen over
the shop door, but I shall not record either.Not that I think the
honest man is ever likely to read such "light" literature as this book,
or to recall the three wanderers to whom he was so civil and kind, and
upon whom he poured out an amount of local and personal facts, which
we listened to--as a student of human nature is prone to do--with an
amused interest in which the comic verged on the pathetic.How large
to each man seems his own little world, and what child-like faith he
has in its importance to other people!I shall always recall our friend
at St.Ives, with his prayer-meetings, his chapel-goings--I concluded
he was a Methodist, a sect very numerous in Cornwall--his delight in
his successful shop and well-brought-up sons, who managed it so well,
leaving him to enjoy his _otium cum dignitate_--no doubt a municipal
dignity, for he showed us the Town Hall with great gusto.Evidently to
his honest, simple soul, St.By and by again he pulled out the turnip-like watch."Just ten minutes
to get to my prayer-meeting, and I never like to be late, I have been a
punctual man all my life, ma'am," added he, half apologetically, till
I suggested that this was probably the cause of his peace and success.Upon which he smiled, lifted his hat with a benign adieu, hoped we had
liked St.Ives--we had liked his company at any rate--and with a final
pointing across the street, "There's my shop, ladies, if you would care
to look at it," trotted away to his prayer-meeting.Ives, especially Tregenna, its
ancient mansion transformed into an hotel, is exceedingly pretty, but
night was falling fast, and we saw nothing.Speedily we despatched a
most untempting meal, and hurried Charles's departure, lest we should
be benighted, as we nearly were, during the long miles of straight and
unlovely road--the good road--between here and Penzance.We had done
our duty, we had seen the place, but as, in leaving it behind us, we
laughingly repeated the nursery rhyme, we came to the conclusion that
the man who was "_going_ to St.Ives" was the least fortunate of all
those notable individuals.DAY THE ELEVENTH


The last thing before retiring, we had glanced out on a gloomy sea, a
starless sky, pitch darkness, broken only by those moving lights on St.Michael's Mount, and thought anxiously of the morrow.It would be hard,
if after journeying thus far and looking forward to it so many years,
the day on which we went to the Land's End should turn out a wet day!Still "hope on, hope ever," as we used to write in our copy-books.Some
of us, I think, still go on writing it in empty air, and will do so
till the hand is dust.It was with a feeling almost of solemnity that we woke and looked out
on the dawn, grey and misty, but still not wet.To be just on the point
of gaining the wish of a life-time, however small, is a fact rare
enough to have a certain pathos in it.We slept again, and trusted
for the best, which by breakfast-time really came, in flickering
sun-gleams, and bits of hopeful blue sky.We wondered for the last
time, as we had wondered for half a century, "what the Land's End would
be like," and then started, rather thoughtful than merry, to find out
the truth of the case.Glad as we were to have for our expedition this quiet Sunday instead
of a tumultuous week day, conscience smote us in driving through
Penzance, with the church-bells ringing, and the people streaming along
to morning service, all in their Sunday best.Perhaps we might manage
to go to afternoon church at Sennen, or St.Sennen's, which we knew
by report, as the long-deceased father of a family we were acquainted
with had been curate there early in the century, and we had promised
faithfully "just to go and look at the old place."But one can keep Sunday sometimes even outside church-doors.I shall
never forget the Sabbatic peace of that day; those lonely and lovely
roads, first rich with the big trees and plentiful vegetation about
Penzance, then gradually growing barer and barer as we drove along the
high promontory which forms the extreme point westward of our island.The way along which so many tourist-laden vehicles pass daily was
now all solitary; we scarcely saw a soul, except perhaps a labourer
leaning over a gate in his decent Sunday clothes, or two or three
children trotting to school or church, with their books under their
arms.Unquestionably Cornwall is a respectable, sober-minded county;
religious-minded too, whether Methodist, Quaker, or other nonconformist
sects, of which there are a good many, or decent, conservative Church
of England.Buryan's--a curious old church founded on the place where
an Irishwoman, Saint Buriana, is said to have made her hermitage.A
few stray cottages comprised the whole village.There was nothing
special to see, except to drink in the general atmosphere of peace and
sunshine and solitude, till we came to Treryn, the nearest point to the
celebrated Logan or rocking-stone.From childhood we had read about it; the most remarkable specimen in
England of those very remarkable stones, whether natural or artificial,
who can decide?"Which the touch of a finger alone sets moving,
  But all earth's powers cannot shake from their base."Not quite true, this; since in 1824 a rash and foolish Lieutenant
Goldsmith (let his name be gibbeted for ever!)did come with a boat's
crew, and by main force remove the Logan a few inches from the point
on which it rests.Indignant justice very properly compelled him, at
great labour and pains, to put it back again, but it has never rocked
properly since.By Charles's advice we took a guide, a solemn-looking youth, who
stalked silently ahead of us along the "hedges," which, as at the
Lizard, furnished the regular path across the fields coastwards.Soon the gleaming circle of sea again flashed upon us, from behind a
labyrinth of rocks, whence we met a couple of tourists returning."You'll find it a pretty stiff climb to the Logan, ladies," said one of
them in answer to a question.And so we should have done, indeed, had not our guide's hand been
much readier than his tongue.I, at least, should never have got even
so far as that little rock-nest where I located myself--a somewhat
anxious-minded old hen--and watched my chickens climb triumphantly that
enormous mass of stone which we understood to be the Logan.they shouted across the dead stillness, the
lovely solitude of sky and sea.And I suppose it did rock, but must
honestly confess _I_ could not see it stir a single inch.However, it was a big stone, a very big stone, and the stones
around it were equally huge and most picturesquely thrown together.Also--delightful to my young folks!--they furnished the most
adventurous scramble that heart could desire.I alone felt a certain
relief when we were all again on smooth ground, with no legs or arms
broken.The cliff-walk between the Logan and the Land's End is said to be one
of the finest in England for coast scenery.Treryn or Treen Dinas,
Pardeneck Point, and Tol Pedn Penwith had been named as places we ought
to see, but this was impracticable.We had to content ourselves with a
dull inland road, across a country gradually getting more barren and
ugly, till we found ourselves suddenly at what seemed the back-yard of
a village public-house, where two or three lounging stable-men came
forward to the carriage, and Charles jumped down from his box.I forbear to translate the world of meaning implied in that brief
exclamation.Perhaps we shall admire the place more
when we have ceased to be hungry."The words of wisdom were listened to; and we spent our first quarter of
an hour at the Land's End in attacking a skeleton "remain" of not too
daintily-cooked beef, and a cavernous cheese, in a tiny back parlour
of the--let me give it its right name--First and Last Inn, of Great
Britain."We never provide for Sunday," said the waitress, responding to a
sympathetic question on the difficulty it must be to get food here."It's very seldom any tourists come on a Sunday."At which we felt altogether humbled; but in a few minutes more our
contrition passed into sovereign content.We went out of doors, upon the narrow green plateau in front of the
house, and then we recognised where we were--standing at the extreme
end of a peninsula, with a long line of rocks running out still further
into the sea.That "great and wide sea, wherein are moving things
innumerable," the mysterious sea "kept in the hollow of His hand," who
is Infinity, and looking at which, in the intense solitude and silence,
one seems dimly to guess at what Infinity may be.Any one who wishes to
go to church for once in the Great Temple which His hands have builded,
should spend a Sunday at the Land's End.At first, our thought had been, What in the world shall we do here for
two mortal hours!Now, we wished we had had two whole days.A sunset, a
sunrise, a star-lit night, what would they not have been in this grand
lonely place--almost as lonely as a ship at sea?It would be next best
to finding ourselves in the middle of the Atlantic.But this bliss could not be; so we proceeded to make the best of what
we had.The bright day was darkening, and a soft greyness began to
creep over land and sea.No, not soft, that is the very last adjective
applicable to the Land's End.Even on that calm day there was a fresh
wind--there must be always wind--and the air felt sharper and more salt
than any sea-air I ever knew.Stimulating too, so that one's nerves
were strung to the highest pitch of excitement.We felt able to do
anything, without fear and without fatigue.So that when a guide came
forward--a regular man-of-war's-man he looked--we at once resolved to
adventure along the line of rocks, seaward, "out as far as anybody was
accustomed to go.""Ay, ay; I'll take you, ladies.That is--the young ladies might go--but
you--" eying me over with his keen sailor's glance, full of honesty and
good humour, "you're pretty well on in years, ma'am."Laughing, I told him how far on, but that I was able to do a good deal
yet."Oh, I've taken ladies much older than you.One the other day was
nearly seventy.So we'll do our best, ma'am.He offered a rugged, brown hand, as firm and steady as a mast, to hold
by, and nothing could exceed the care and kindliness with which he
guided every step of every one of us, along that perilous path, that
is, perilous except for cautious feet and steady heads.If you make one false step, you are done
for," said our guide, composedly as he pointed to the boiling whirl of
waters below.[Illustration: THE LAND'S END AND THE LOGAN ROCK.]Still, though a narrow and giddy path, there was a path, and the
exploit, though a little risky, was not fool-hardy.We should have
been bitterly sorry not to have done it--not to have stood for one
grand ten minutes, where in all our lives we may never stand again, at
the farthest point where footing is possible, gazing out upon that
magnificent circle of sea which sweeps over the submerged "land of
Lyonesse," far, far away, into the wide Atlantic.There were just two people standing with us, clergymen evidently, and
one, the guide told us, was "the parson at St.We spoke to
him, as people do speak, instinctively, when mutually watching such a
scene, and by and by we mentioned the name of the long-dead curate of
St.The "parson" caught instantly at the name.Oh, yes, my father knew him quite well.He used constantly
to walk across from Sennen to our house, and take us children long
rambles across the cliffs, with a volume of Southey or Wordsworth under
his arm.He was a fine young fellow in those days, I have heard, and an
excellent clergyman.And he afterwards married a very nice girl from
the north somewhere."The "nice girl" was now a sweet silver-haired little
lady of nearly eighty; the "fine young fellow" had long since departed;
and the boy was this grave middle-aged gentleman, who remembered both
as a tradition of his youth.What a sermon it all preached, beside this
eternal rock, this ever-moving, never-changing sea!But time was passing--how fast it does pass, minutes, ay, and years!We
bade adieu to our known unknown friend, and turned our feet backwards,
cautiously as ever, stopping at intervals to listen to the gossip of
our guide."Yes, ladies, that's the spot--you may see the hoof-mark--where General
Armstrong's horse fell over; he just slipped off in time, but the poor
beast was drowned.And here, over that rock, happened the most curious
thing.I wouldn't have believed it myself, only I knew a man that saw
it with his own eyes.Once a bullock fell off into the pool below
there--just look, ladies."(We did look, into a perfect Maelstrom of
boiling waves.)"Everybody thought he was drowned, till he was seen
swimming about unhurt.They fished him up, and exhibited him as a
curiosity."And again, pointing to a rock far out in the sea.Thirty years ago a ship went to pieces there, and
the captain and his wife managed to climb on to that rock.They held
on there for two days and a night, before a boat could get at them.At last they were taken off one at a time, with rockets and a rope;
the wife first.But the rope slipped and she fell into the water.She
was pulled out in a minute or so, and rowed ashore, but they durst
not tell her husband she was drowned.I was standing on the beach at
Whitesand Bay when the boat came in.I was only a lad, but I remember
it well, and her too lifted out all dripping and quite dead."They went back for him, and got him off safe, telling him nothing.But
when he found she was dead he went crazy-like--kept for ever saying,
'She saved my life, she saved my life,' till he was taken away by his
friends.Look out, ma'am, mind your footing; just here a lady slipped
and broke her leg a week ago.I had to carry her all the way to the
hotel.We all smiled at the comical candour of the honest sailor, who
proceeded to give us bits of his autobiography.He was Cornish born,
but had seen a deal of the world as an A.B.on board her Majesty's ship
_Agamemnon_."Of course you have heard of the _Agamemnon_, ma'am.I was in her off
Balaklava.His eyes brightened as we discussed names and places once
so familiar, belonging to that time, which now seems so far back as to
be almost historical."Then you know what a winter we had, and what a summer afterwards.I
came home invalided, and didn't attempt the service afterwards; but I
never thought I should come home at all.Yes, it's a fine place the
Land's End, though the air is so strong that it kills some folks right
off.Once an invalid gentleman came, and he was dead in a fortnight.But I'm not dead yet, and I stop here mostly all the year round."He sniffed the salt air and smiled all over his weather-beaten
face--keen, bronzed, blue-eyed, like one of the old Vikings.He was a
fine specimen of a true British tar.When, having seen all we could, we
gave him his small honorarium, he accepted it gratefully, and insisted
on our taking in return a memento of the place in the shape of a stone
weighing about two pounds, glittering with ore, and doubtless valuable,
but ponderous.Oh, the trouble it gave me to carry it home, and pack
and unpack it among my small luggage!But I did bring it home, and
I keep it still in remembrance of the Land's End, and of the honest
sailor of H.M.S.We could dream of an unknown Land's End no more.It
became now a real place, of which the reality, though different from
the imagination, was at least no disappointment.How few people in
attaining a life-long desire can say as much!Our only regret, an endurable one now, was that we had not carried out
our original plan of staying some days there--tourist-haunted, troubled
days they might have been, but the evenings and mornings would have
been glorious.With somewhat heavy hearts we summoned Charles and the
carriage, for already a misty drift of rain began sweeping over the sea."Still, we must see Whitesand Bay," said one of us, recalling a story
a friend had once told how, staying at Land's End, she crossed the bay
alone in a blinding storm, took refuge at the coastguard station, where
she was hospitably received, and piloted back with most chivalric care
by a coastguard, who did not tell her till their journey's end that he
had left at home a wife, and a baby just an hour old.We only caught a glimmer of the
bay through drizzling rain, which by the time we reached Sennen village
had become a regular downpour.Evidently, we could do no more that day,
which was fast melting into night."We'll go home," was the sad resolve, glad nevertheless that we had a
comfortable "home" to go to.So closing the carriage and protecting ourselves as well as we could
from the driving rain, we went forward, passing the Quakers' burial
ground, where is said to be one of the finest views in Cornwall; the
Nine Maidens, a circle of Druidical stones, and many other interesting
things, without once looking at or thinking of them.Half a mile from Marazion the rain ceased, and a light like that of the
rising moon began to break through the clouds.What a night it might
be, or might have been, could we have stayed at the Land's End!It is in great things as in small, the
worry, the torment, the paralysing burden of life.We
have done our best to be happy, and we have been happy.DAY THE TWELFTH


Monday morning.Black Monday we were half inclined to call it, knowing
that by the week's end our travels must be over and done, and that if
we wished still to see all we had planned, we must inevitably next
morning return to civilisation and railways, a determination which
involved taking this night "a long, a last farewell" of our comfortable
carriage and our faithful Charles."But it needn't be until night," said he, evidently loth to part from
his ladies."If I get back to Falmouth by daylight to-morrow morning,
master will be quite satisfied.I can take you wherever you like
to-day.""Oh, he shall get a good feed and a rest till the middle of the night,
then he'll do well enough.We shall have the old moon after one o'clock
to get home by.Between Penzance and Falmouth it's a good road, though
rather lonely."I should think it was, in the "wee hours" by the dim light of a waning
moon.But Charles seemed to care nothing about it, so we said no more,
but decided to take the drive--our last drive.Our minds were perplexed between Botallack Mine, the Gurnard's Head,
Lamorna Cove, and several other places, which we were told we must on
no account miss seeing, the first especially.Some of us, blessed with
scientific relatives, almost dreaded returning home without having seen
a single Cornish mine; others, lovers of scenery, longed for more of
that magnificent coast.But finally, a meek little voice carried the
day.[Illustration: SENNEN COVE."I was so disappointed--more than I liked to say--when it rained,
and I couldn't get my shells for our bazaar.If it wouldn't trouble anybody very much, mightn't we go again to
Whitesand Bay?"It was a heavenly day; to spend it
in delicious idleness on that wide sweep of sunshiny sand would be a
rest for the next day's fatigue.there
would be no temptation to put on miners' clothes, and go dangling in
a basket down to the heart of the earth, as the Princess of Wales was
reported to have done.The pursuit of knowledge may be delightful, but
some of us owned to a secret preference for _terra firma_ and the upper
air.We resolved to face opprobrium, and declare boldly we had "no
time" (needless to add no inclination) to go and see Botallack Mine.The Gurnard's Head cost us a pang to miss; but then we should catch a
second view of the Land's End.Yes, we would go to Whitesand Bay.It was a far shorter journey in sunshine than in rain, even though we
made various divergencies for blackberries and other pleasures.Never
had the sky looked bluer or the sea brighter, and much we wished that
we could have wandered on in dreamy peace, day after day, or even gone
through England, gipsy-fashion, in a house upon wheels, which always
seemed to me the very ideal of travelling.Pretty little Sennen, with its ancient
church and its new school house, where the civil schoolmaster gave me
some ink to write a post-card for those to whom even the post-mark
"Sennen" would have a touching interest, and where the boys and girls,
released for dinner, were running about.Board school pupils, no doubt,
weighted with an amount of learning which would have been appalling
to their grandfathers and grandmothers, the simple parishioners of
the "fine young fellow" half a century ago.As we passed through the
village with its pretty cottages and "Lodgings to Let," we could not
help thinking what a delightful holiday resort this would be for
a large small family, who could be turned out as we were when the
carriage could no farther go, on the wide sweep of green common,
gradually melting into silvery sand, so fine and soft that it was
almost a pleasure to tumble down the <DW72>s, and get up again, shaking
yourself like a dog, without any sense of dirt or discomfort.What a
paradise for children, who might burrow like rabbits and wriggle about
like sand-eels, and never come to any harm!Without thought of any danger, we began selecting our bathing-place,
shallow enough, with long strips of wet shimmering sand to be crossed
before reaching even the tiniest waves; when one of us, the cautious
one, appealed to an old woman, the only human being in sight."Folks ne'er bathe here.Whether she understood us or not, or whether we
quite understood her, I am not sure, and should be sorry to libel such
a splendid bathing ground--apparently.But maternal wisdom interposed,
and the girls yielded.When, half an hour afterwards, we saw a solitary
figure moving on a distant ledge of rock, and a black dot, doubtless
a human head, swimming or bobbing about in the sea beneath--maternal
wisdom was reproached as arrant cowardice.But the sand was delicious,
the sea-wind so fresh, and the sea so bright, that disappointment could
not last.We made an encampment of our various impedimenta, stretched
ourselves out, and began the search for shells, in which every
arm's-length involved a mine of wealth and beauty.Never except at one place, on the estuary of the Mersey, have I
seen a beach made up of shells so lovely in colour and shape; very
minute; some being no bigger than a grain of rice or a pin's head.The
collecting of them was a fascination.We forgot all the historical
interests that ought to have moved us, saw neither Athelstan, King
Stephen, King John, nor Perkin Warbeck, each of whom is said to have
landed here--what were they to a tiny shell, like that moralised over
by Tennyson in "Maud"--"small, but a work divine"?I think infinite
greatness sometimes touches one less than infinite littleness--the
exceeding tenderness of Nature, or the Spirit which is behind Nature,
who can fashion with equal perfectness a starry hemisphere and a
glow-worm; an ocean and a little pink shell.The only imperfection in
creation seems--oh, strange mystery!--to be man.But away with moralising, or dreaming, though this was just a day for
dreaming, clear, bright, warm, with not a sound except the murmur
of the low waves, running in an enormous length--curling over and
breaking on the soft sands.Everything was so heavenly calm, it seemed
impossible to believe in that terrible scene when the captain and his
wife were seen clinging to the Brisons rock, just ahead.Doubtless our friend of the _Agamemnon_ was telling this and all
his other stories to an admiring circle of tourists, for we saw the
Land's End covered with a moving swarm like black flies.How thankful
we felt that we had "done" it on a Sunday!Still, we were pleased
to have another gaze at it, with its line of picturesque rocks, the
Armed Knight and the Irish Lady--though, I confess, I never could make
out which was the knight and which was the lady.Can it be that some
fragment of the legend of Tristram and Iseult originated these names?After several sweet lazy hours, we went through a "fish-cellar," a
little group of cottages, and climbed a headland, to take our veritable
farewell of the Land's End, and then decided to go home.We had rolled
or thrown our provision basket, rugs, &c., down the sandy <DW72>, but it
was another thing to carry them up again.I went in quest of a small
boy, and there presented himself a big man, coastguard, as the only
unemployed hand in the place, who apologised with such a magnificent
air for not having "cleaned" himself, that I almost blushed to ask
him to do such a menial service as to carry a bundle of wraps.But
he accepted it, conversing amiably as we went, and giving me a most
graphic picture of life at Sennen during the winter.When he left me,
making a short cut to our encampment--a black dot on the sands, with
two moving black dots near it--a fisher wife joined me, and of her own
accord began a conversation.She and I fraternised at once, chiefly on the subject of children, a
group of whom were descending the road from Sennen School.She told me
how many of them were hers, and what prizes they had gained, and what
hard work it was.She could neither read nor write, she said, but she
liked her children to be good scholars, and they learnt a deal up at
Sennen.Apparently they did, and something else besides learning, for when I
had parted from my loquacious friend, I came up to the group just in
time to prevent a stand-up fight between two small mites, the _casus
belli_ of which I could no more arrive at, than a great many wiser
people can discover the origin of national wars.So I thought the
strong hand of "intervention"--civilised intervention--was best, and
put an end to it, administering first a good scolding, and then a coin.The division of this coin among the little party compelled an extempore
sum in arithmetic, which I required them to do (for the excellent
reason that I couldn't do it myself!)Therefore I
conclude that the heads of the Sennen school-children are as solid as
their fists, and equally good for use.[Illustration: ON THE ROAD TO ST.which as the fisher wife told me, only goes to
Penzance about once a year, and is, as yet, innocent of tourists, for
the swarm at the Land's End seldom goes near Whitesand Bay.Existence
here must be very much that of an oyster,--but perhaps oysters are
happy.By the time we reached Penzance the lovely day was dying into an
equally lovely evening.It was high water, the bay was all alive with boats, and there was
quite a little crowd of people gathered at the mild little station of
Marazion.A princess was expected, that young half-English, half-foreign
princess, in whose romantic story the British public has taken such an
interest, sympathising with the motherly kindness of our good Queen,
with the wedding at Windsor, and the sad little infant funeral there,
a year after.The Princess Frederica of Hanover, and the Baron Von
Pawel-Rammingen, her father's secretary, who, like a stout mediaeval
knight, had loved, wooed, and married her, were coming to St.Michael's
Mount on a visit to the St.Marazion had evidently roused itself, and risen to the occasion.Half
the town must have turned out to the beach, and the other half secured
every available boat, in which it followed, at respectful distance,
the two boats, one full of luggage, the other of human beings, which
were supposed to be the royal party.People speculated with earnest
curiosity, which was the princess, and which her husband, and what the
St.Aubyns would do with them; whether they would be taken to see the
Land's End, and whether they would go there as ordinary tourists, or in
a grand visit of state.How hard it is that royal folk can never see
anything except in state, or in a certain adventitious garb, beautiful,
no doubt, but satisfactorily hiding the real thing.How they must long
sometimes for a walk, after the fashion of Haroun Alraschid, up and
down Regent Street and Oxford Street!or an incognito foreign tour, or
even a solitary country walk, without a "lady-in-waiting."We had no opera-glass to add to the many levelled at those two boats,
so we went in--hoping host and guests would spend a pleasant evening in
the lovely old rooms we knew.We spent ours in rest, and in arranging
for to-morrow's flight.Also in consulting with our kindly landlady
as to a possible house at Marazion for some friends whom the winter
might drive southwards, like the swallows, to a climate which, in this
one little bay shut out from east and north, is--they told us--during
all the cruel months which to many of us means only enduring life, not
living--as mild and equable almost as the Mediterranean shores.And
finally, we settled all with our faithful Charles, who looked quite
mournful at parting with his ladies."Yes, it is rather a long drive, and pretty lonely," said he."But I'll
wait till the moons up, and that'll help us.We'll get into Falmouth
by daylight.I've got to do the same thing often enough through the
summer, so I don't mind it."Thus said the good fellow, putting a cheery face on it, then with a
hasty "Good-bye, ladies," he rushed away.But we had taken his address,
not meaning to lose sight of him.(Nor have we done so up to this date
of writing; and the fidelity has been equal on both sides.)Then, in the midst of a peal of bells which was kept up unweariedly
till 10 P.M.--evidently Marazion is not blessed with the sight
of a princess every day--we closed our eyes upon all outward things,
and went away to the Land of Nod.DAY THE THIRTEENTH


Into King Arthurs land--Tintagel his birth-place, and Camelford,
where he fought his last battle--the legendary region of which one
may believe as much or as little as one pleases--we were going
to-day.With the good common sense which we flattered ourselves had
accompanied every step of our unsentimental journey, we had arranged
all before-hand, ordered a carriage to meet the mail train, and hoped
to find at Tintagel--not King Uther Pendragon, King Arthur or King
Mark, but a highly respectable landlord, who promised us a welcome at
an inn--which we only trusted would be as warm and as kindly as that we
left behind us at Marazion.The line of railway which goes to the far west of England is one of the
prettiest in the kingdom on a fine day, which we were again blessed
with.It had been a wet summer, we heard, throughout Cornwall, but
in all our journey, save that one wild storm at the Lizard, sunshine
scarcely ever failed us.Ives
Bay or sweeping through the mining district of Redruth, and the wooded
country near Truro, Grampound, and St.Austell, till we again saw the
glittering sea on the other side of Cornwall--all was brightness.Then
darting inland once more, our iron horse carried us past Lostwithiel,
the little town which once boasted Joseph Addison, M.P., as its
representative; gave us a fleeting vision of Ristormel, one of the
ancient castles of Cornwall, and on through a leafy land, beginning to
change from rich green to the still richer yellows and reds of autumn,
till we stopped at Bodmin Road.No difficulty in finding our carriage, for it was the only one there;
a huge vehicle, of ancient build, the horses to match, capable of
accommodating a whole family and its luggage.We missed our compact
little machine, and our brisk, kindly Charles, but soon settled
ourselves in dignified, roomy state, for the twenty miles, or rather
more, which lay between us and the coast.Our way ran along lonely
quiet country roads and woods almost as green as when Queen Guinevere
rode through them "a maying," before the dark days of her sin and King
Arthur's death.Here it occurs to me, as it did this day to a practical youthful mind,
"What in the world do people know about King Arthur?"Well, most people have read Tennyson, and a few are acquainted with
the "Morte d'Arthur" of Sir Thomas Malory.But, perhaps I had better
briefly give the story, or as much of it as is necessary for the
edification of outsiders.Uther Pendragon, King of Britain, falling in love with Ygrayne, wife of
the duke of Cornwall, besieged them in their twin castles of Tintagel
and Terrabil, slew the husband, and the same day married the wife.Unto
whom a boy was born, and by advice of the enchanter Merlin, carried
away, from the sea-shore beneath Tintagel, and confided to a good
knight, Sir Ector, to be brought up as his own son, and christened
Arthur.On the death of the king, Merlin produced the youth, who was
recognized by his mother Ygrayne, and proclaimed king in the stead
of Uther Pendragon.He instituted the Order of Knights of the Round
Table, who were to go everywhere, punishing vice and rescuing oppressed
virtue, for the love of God and of some noble lady.He married
Guinevere, daughter of King Leodegrance, who forsook him for the love
of Sir Launcelot, his bravest knight and dearest friend.One by one,
his best knights fell away into sin, and his nephew Mordred raised a
rebellion, fought with him, and conquered him at Camelford.Seeing his
end was near, Arthur bade his last faithful knight, Sir Bedevere, carry
him to the shore of a mere (supposed to be Dozmare Pool) and throw in
there his sword Excalibur; when appeared a boat with three queens,
who lifted him in, mourning over him.With them he sailed away across
the mere, to be healed of his grievous wound.Some say that he was
afterwards buried in a chapel near, others declare that he lives still
in fairy land, and will reappear in latter days, to reinstate the Order
of Knights of the Round Table, and rule his beloved England, which will
then be perfect as he once tried to make it, but in vain.Camelford of to-day is certainly not the Camelot of King Arthur--but
a very respectable, commonplace little town, much like other country
towns; the same genteel linendrapers' and un-genteel ironmongers'
shops; the same old-established commercial inn, and a few ugly, but
solid-looking private houses, with their faces to the street and
their backs nestled in gardens and fields.Some of the inhabitants of
these said houses were to be seen taking a quiet afternoon stroll.Doubtless they are eminently respectable and worthy folk, leading a
mild provincial life like the people in Miss Martineau's _Deerbrook_,
or Miss Austen's _Pride and Prejudice_--of which latter quality they
have probably a good share.We let our horses rest, but we ourselves felt not the slightest wish to
rest at Camelford, so walked leisurely on till we came to the little
river Camel, and to Slaughter Bridge, said to be the point where King
Arthur's army was routed and where he received his death-wound.A
slab of stone, some little distance up the stream, is still called
"King Arthur's Tomb."But as his coffin is preserved, as well as his
Round Table, at Winchester; where, according to mediaeval tradition,
the bodies of both Arthur and Guinevere were found, and the head
of Guinevere had yellow hair; also that near the little village of
Davidstow, is a long barrow, having in the centre a mound, which is
called "King Arthur's grave"--inquiring minds have plenty of "facts" to
choose from.Possibly at last they had better resort to fiction, and
believe in Arthur's disappearance, as Tennyson makes him say,

  "To the island-valley of Avillion...
  Where I may heal me of my grievous wound."Dozmare Pool we found so far out of our route that we had to make a
virtue of necessity, and imagine it all; the melancholy moorland lake,
with the bleak hill above it, and stray glimpses of the sea beyond.A ghostly spot, and full of many ghostly stories besides the legend
of Arthur.Here Tregeagle, the great demon of Cornwall, once had his
dwelling, until, selling his soul to the devil, his home was sunk to
the bottom of the mere, and himself is heard of stormy nights, wailing
round it with other ghost-demons, in which the Cornish mind still
lingeringly believes.Visionary packs of hounds; a shadowy coach and
horses, which drives round and round the pool, and then drives into it;
flitting lights, kindled by no human hand, in places where no human
foot could go--all these tales are still told by the country folk, and
we might have heard them all.Might also have seen, in fancy, the flash
of the "brand Excalibur"; heard the wailing song of the three queens;
and pictured the dying Arthur lying on the lap of his sister Morgane la
Faye.But, I forgot, this is an un-sentimental journey.The Delabole quarries are as un-sentimental a place as one could
desire.It was very curious to come suddenly upon this world of slate,
piled up in enormous masses on either side the road, and beyond them
hills of debris, centuries old--for the mines have been worked ever
since the time of Queen Elizabeth.Houses, walls, gates, fences,
everything that can possibly be made of slate, is made.No green or
other colour tempers the all-pervading shade of bluish-grey, for
vegetation in the immediate vicinity of the quarries is abolished,
the result of which would be rather dreary, save for the cheerful
atmosphere of wholesome labour, the noise of waggons, horses,
steam-engines--such a contrast to the silence of the deserted tin-mines.But, these Delabole quarries passed, silence and solitude come back
again.Even the yearly-increasing influx of tourists fails to make
the little village of Trevena anything but a village, where the
said tourists lounge about in the one street, if it can be called a
street, between the two inns and the often-painted, picturesque old
post-office.Everything looked so simple, so home-like, that we were
amused to find we had to get ready for a _table d'hote_ dinner, in
the only available eating room where the one indefatigable waitress,
a comely Cornish girl, who seemed Argus and Briareus rolled into one,
served us--a party small enough to make conversation general, and
pleasant and intelligent enough to make it very agreeable, which does
not always happen at an English hotel.Then we sallied out to find the lane which leads to Tintagel Castle,
or Castles--for one sits in the sea, the other on the opposite heights
in the mainland, with power of communicating by the narrow causeway
which now at least exists between the rock and the shore.This seems to
confirm the legend, how the luckless husband of Ygrayne shut up himself
and his wife in two castles, he being slain in the one, and she married
to the victorious King Uther Pendragon, in the other.Both looked so steep and dangerous in the fast-coming twilight that we
thought it best to attempt neither, so contented ourselves with a walk
on the cliffs and the smooth green field which led thither.Leaning
against a gate, we stood and watched one of the grandest out of the
many grand sunsets which had blessed us in Cornwall.The black rock of
Tintagel filled the foreground; beyond, the eye saw nothing but sea,
the sea which covers vanished Lyonesse, until it met the sky, a clear
amber with long bars like waves, so that you could hardly tell where
sea ended and sky began.Then into it there swam slowly a long low
cloud, shaped like a boat, with a raised prow, and two or three figures
sitting at the stern."King Arthur and the three queens," we declared, and really a very
moderate imagination could have fancied it this."But what is that long
black thing at the bow?""Oh," observed drily the most practical of the three, "it's King
Arthur's luggage."We fell into fits of laughter, and
went home to tea and bed.DAYS FOURTEENTH, FIFTEENTH, AND SIXTEENTH--


And all Arthurian days, so I will condense them into one chapter, and
not spin out the hours that were flying so fast.Yet we hardly wished
to stop them; for pleasant as travelling is, the best delight of all
is--the coming home.Walking, to one more of those exquisite autumn days, warm as summer,
yet with a tender brightness that hot summer never has, like the love
between two old people, out of whom all passion has died--we remembered
that we were at Tintagel, the home of Ygrayne and Arthur, of King Mark
and Tristram and Iseult.I had to tell that story to my girls in the
briefest form, how King Mark sent his nephew, Sir Tristram, to fetch
home Iseult of Ireland for his queen, and on the voyage Bragswaine,
her handmaiden, gave each a love-potion, which caused the usual fatal
result; how at last Tristram fled from Tintagel into Brittany, where
he married another Iseult "of the white hands," and lived peacefully,
till, stricken by death, his fancy went back to his old love, whom he
implored to come to him.A tale--of which
the only redeeming point is the innocence, simplicity, and dignity of
the second Iseult, the unloved Breton wife, to whom none of our modern
poets who have sung or travestied the wild, passionate, miserable, ugly
story, have ever done full justice.These sinful lovers, the much-wronged but brutal King Mark, the
scarcely less brutal Uther Pendragon, and hapless Ygrayne--what a
curious condition of morals and manners the Arthurian legends unfold!A time when might was right; when every one seized what he wanted just
because he wanted it, and kept it, if he could, till a stronger hand
wrenched it from him.That in such a state of society there should
ever have arisen the dimmest dream of a man like Arthur--not perhaps
Tennyson's Arthur, the "blameless king," but even Sir Thomas Malory's,
founded on mere tradition--is a remarkable thing.Clear through all
the mists of ages shines that ideal of knighthood, enjoining courage,
honour, faith, chastity, the worship of God and the service of men.Also, in the very highest degree, inculcating that chivalrous love of
woman--not women--which barbaric nations never knew.As we looked at
that hoar ruin sitting solitary in the sunny sea, and thought of the
days when it was a complete fortress, inclosing a mass of human beings,
all with human joys, sorrows, passions, crimes--things that must have
existed in essence, however legend has exaggerated or altered them--we
could not but feel that the mere possibility of a King Arthur shining
down the dim vista of long-past centuries, is something to prove that
goodness, like light, has an existence as indestructible as Him from
whom it comes.We looked at Tintagel with its risky rock-path."It will be a hot
climb, and our bathing days are numbered.Let us go in the opposite
direction to Bossinney Cove."Practicality when weighed against Poetry is poor--Poetry always kicks
the beam.While waiting for
the tide to cover the little strip of sand, we re-mounted the winding
path, and settled ourselves like seabirds on the furthermost point of
rock, whence, just by extending a hand, we could have dropped anything,
ourselves even, into a sheer abyss of boiling waves, dizzy to look down
into, and yet delicious.So was the bath, though a little gloomy, for the sun could barely reach
the shut-in cove; and we were interfered with considerably by--not
tourists--but a line of donkeys!They were seen solemnly descending the
narrow cliff-path one by one--eleven in all--each with an empty sack
over his shoulder.Lastly came a very old man, who, without taking the
least notice of us, disposed himself to fill these sacks with sand.One after the other the eleven meek animals came forward and submitted
each to his load, which proceeding occupied a good hour and a half.I hardly know which was the most patient, the old man or his donkeys.[Illustration: CRESWICK'S MILL IN THE ROCKY VALLEY.]We began some of us to talk to his beasts, and others to himself."Yes,
it was hard work," he said, "but he managed to come down to the cove
three times a day.They all had their
names; Lucy, Cherry, Sammy, Tom, Jack, Ned;" each animal pricked up its
long ears and turned round its quiet eyes when called.Some were young
and some old, but all were very sure-footed, which was necessary here."The weight some of 'em would carry was wonderful."The old man seemed proud of the creatures, and kind to them too in a
sort of way.He had been a fisherman, he said, but now was too old for
that; so got his living by collecting sand."It makes capital garden-paths, this sand.I'd be glad to bring you
some, ladies," said he, evidently with an eye to business.When we
explained that this was impracticable, unless he would come all the way
to London, he merely said, "Oh," and accepted the disappointment.Then
bidding us a civil "Good day," he disappeared with his laden train.Nothing of the past knightly days, nothing of the
busy existing modern present affected him, or ever would do so.He
might have been own brother, or cousin, to Wordsworth's "Leech-gatherer
on the lonely moor."Whenever we think of Bossinney Cove, we shall
certainly think of that mild old man and his eleven donkeys.The day was hot, and it had been a steep climb; we decided to drive in
the afternoon, "for a rest," to Boscastle.Artists and tourists haunt this picturesque nook.A village built at
the end of a deep narrow creek, which runs far inland, and is a safe
shelter for vessels of considerable size.On either side is a high
footpath, leading to two headlands, from both of which the views of
sea and coast are very fine.And there are relics of antiquity and
legends thereto belonging--a green mound, all that remains of Bottrieux
Castle; and Ferrabury Church, with its silent tower.A peal of bells
had been brought, and the ship which carried them had nearly reached
the cove, when the pilot, bidding the captain "thank God for his safe
voyage," was answered that he "thanked only himself and a fair wind."Immediately a storm arose; and the ship went down with every soul on
board--except the pilot.So the church tower is mute--but on winter
nights the lost bells are still heard, sounding mournfully from the
depths of the sea.As we sat, watching with a vague fascination the spouting, minute by
minute, of a "blow-hole," almost as fine as the Kynance post-office--we
moralised on the story of the bells, and on the strange notions people
have, even in these days, of Divine punishments; imputing to the
Almighty Father all their own narrow jealousies and petty revenges,
dragging down God into the likeness of men, such an one as themselves,
instead of striving to lift man into the image of God.Meantime the young folks rambled and scrambled--watched with anxious
and even envious eyes--for it takes one years to get entirely
reconciled to the quiescence of the down-hill journey.And then we
drove slowly back--just in time for another grand sunset, with Tintagel
black in the foreground, until it and all else melted into darkness,
and there was nothing left but to

  "Watch the twilight stars come out
    Above the lonely sea."Next morning we must climb Tintagel, for it would be our last day.How softly the waves crept in upon the
beach--just as they might have done when they laid at Merlin's feet
"the little naked child," disowned of man but dear to Heaven, who was
to grow up into the "stainless king."He and his knights--the "shadowy people of the realm of dream,"--were
all about us, as, guided by a rheumatic old woman, who climbed feebly
up the stair, where generations of ghostly feet must have ascended and
descended, we reached a bastion and gateway, quite pre-historic.Other
ruins apparently belong to the eleventh or twelfth centuries.It may have been the very landing-place of King
Uther or King Mark, or other Cornish heroes, who held this wonderful
natural-artificial fortress in the dim days of old romance."Here are King Arthur's cups and saucers," said the old woman, pausing
in the midst of a long lament over her own ailments, to point out some
holes in the slate rock."And up there you'll find the chapel.It's an
easy climb--if you mind the path--just where it passes the spring."That spring, trickling down from the very top of the rock, and making
a verdant space all round it--what a treasure it must have been to the
unknown inhabitants who, centuries ago, entrenched themselves here--for
offence or defence--against the main-land.Peacefully it flowed on
still, with the little ferns growing, and the sheep nibbling beside
it.We idle tourists alone occupied that solitary height where those
long-past warlike races--one succeeding the other--lived and loved,
fought and died.The chapel--where the high altar and a little burial-ground beside it
can still be traced--is clearly much later than Arthur's time.However,
there are so few data to go upon, and the action of sea-storms destroys
so much every year, that even to the learned archaeologist, Tintagel is
a great mystery, out of which the imaginative mind may evolve almost
anything it likes.We sat a long time on the top of the rock--realising only the one
obvious fact that our eyes were gazing on precisely the same scene,
seawards and coastwards, that all these long-dead eyes were accustomed
to behold.Beaten by winds and waves till the grey of its slate
formation is nearly black; worn into holes by the constant action of
the tide which widens yearly the space between it and the main-land,
and gnaws the rock below into dangerous hollows that in time become
sea-caves, Tintagel still remains--and one marvels that so much of it
does still remain--a landmark of the cloudy time between legend and
actual history.Whether the ruin on the opposite height was once a portion of
Tintagel Castle, before the sea divided it, making a promontory into
an island--or whether it was the Castle Terrabil, in which Gorlois,
Ygrayne's husband, was slain--no one now can say.That both the twin
fortresses were habitable till Elizabeth's time, there is evidence to
prove.But since then they have been left to decay, to the silent sheep
and the screeching ravens, including doubtless that ghostly chough, in
whose shape the soul of King Arthur is believed still to revisit the
familiar scene.We did not see that notable bird--though we watched with interest two
tame and pretty specimens of its almost extinct species walking about
in a flower-garden in the village, and superstitiously cherished there.We were told that to this day no Cornishman likes to shoot a chough
or a raven.So they live and breed in peace among the twin ruins, and
scream contentedly to the noisy stream which dances down the rocky
hollow from Trevena, and leaps into the sea at Porth Hern--the "iron
gate," over against Tintagel.We thought we had seen everything, and come to an end, but at the hotel
we found a party who had just returned from visiting some sea-caves
beyond Tintagel, which they declared were "the finest things they had
found in Cornwall."It was a lovely calm day, and it was our last day.And, I think, the looser grows one's grasp of life, the greater is
one's longing to make the most of it, to see all we can see of this
wonderful, beautiful world.So, after a hasty meal, we found ourselves
once more down at Porth Hern, seeking a boat and man--alas!not John
Curgenven--under whose guidance we might brave the stormy deep.No sooner had we rounded the rock, than the baby
waves of the tiny bay grew into hills and valleys, among which our boat
went dancing up and down like a sea-gull!"Ay, there's some sea on, there always is here, but we'll be through it
presently," indifferently said the elder of the two boatmen; and plied
his oars, as, I think, only these Cornish boatmen can do, talking all
the while.He pointed out a slate quarry, only accessible from the sea,
unless the workmen liked to be let down by ropes, which sometimes had
to be done.We saw them moving about like black emmets among the clefts
of the rocks, and heard plainly above the sound of the sea the click
of their hammers.Strange, lonely, perilous work it must be, even in
summer.In winter--

"Oh, they're used to it; we're all used to it," said our man, who was
intelligent enough, though nothing equal to John Curgenven."Many a
time I've got sea-fowls' eggs on those rocks there," pointing to a
cliff which did not seem to hold footing for a fly.The
gentry buy them, and we're glad of the money.Dangerous?--yes, rather;
but one must earn one's bread, and it's not so bad when you take to it
young."Nevertheless, I think I shall never look at a collection of sea-birds'
eggs without a slight shudder, remembering those awful cliffs."Here you are, ladies, and the sea's down a bit, as I said.Hold on,
mate, the boat will go right into the cave."And before we knew what was happening, we found ourselves floated out
of daylight into darkness--very dark it seemed at first--and rocking
on a mass of heaving waters, shut in between two high walls, so narrow
that it seemed as if every heave would dash us in pieces against them;
while beyond was a dense blackness, from which one heard the beat of
the everlasting waves against a sort of tunnel, a stormy sea-grave from
which no one could ever hope to come out alive."I don't like this at all," said a small voice."Hadn't we better get out again?"But no sooner was this done than the third of the party longed to
return; and begged for "only five minutes" in that wonderful place,
compared to which Dolor Ugo, and the other Lizard caves, became as
nothing.Yet with its
terror was mingled an awful delight."Give me but five, nay, two
minutes more!""Very well, just as you choose," was the response of meek despair.The boatmen were told to row on into
daylight and sunshine--at least as much sunshine as the gigantic
overhanging cliffs permitted.And never, never, never in this world
shall I again behold that wonderful, mysterious sea-cave.But like all things incomplete, resigned, or lost, it has fixed itself
on my memory with an almost painful vividness.However, I promised not
to regret--not to say another word about it; and I will not.I did see
it, for just a glimpse; and that will serve.Two more pictures remain, the last gorgeous sunset, which I watched in
quiet solitude, sitting on a tombstone by Tintagel church--a building
dating from Saxon times, perched on the very edge of a lofty cliff,
and with a sea-view that reaches from Trevose Head on one side to Bude
Haven on the other.Also, our last long dreamy drive; in the mild
September sunshine, across the twenty-one miles of sparsely inhabited
country which lie between Tintagel and Launceston.In the midst of
it, on the top of a high flat of moorland, our driver turned round
and pointed with his whip to a long low mound, faintly visible about
half-a-mile off."There, ladies, that's King Arthur's grave."The third, at least, that we had either seen or heard of.These varied
records of the hero's last resting-place remind one of the three heads,
said to be still extant, of Oliver Cromwell, one when he was a little
boy, one as a young man, and the third as an old man.But after all my last and vividest recollection of King Arthur's
country is that wild sail--so wild that I wished I had taken it
alone--in the solitary boat, up and down the tossing waves in face of
Tintagel rock; the dark, iron-bound coast with its awful caves, the
bright sunshiny land, and ever-threatening sea.Just the region, in
short, which was likely to create a race like that which Arthurian
legend describes, full of passionate love and deadly hate, capable of
barbaric virtues, and equally barbaric crimes.An age in which the mere
idea of such a hero as that ideal knight

  "Who reverenced his conscience as his God:
  Whose glory was redressing human wrong:
  Who spake no slander, no, nor listened to it:
  Who loved one only, and who clave to her--"

rises over the blackness of darkness like a morning star.If Arthur could "come again"--perhaps in the person of one of the
descendants of a prince who was not unlike him, who lived and died
among us in this very nineteenth century--

  "Wearing the white flower of a blameless life--"

if this could be--what a blessing for Arthur's beloved England![Illustration: THE OLD POST-OFFICE, TREVENA.]L'ENVOI


Written more than a year after.The "old hen" and her chickens have
long been safe at home.A dense December fog creeps in everywhere,
choking and blinding, as I finish the history of those fifteen innocent
days, calm as autumn, and bright as spring, when we three took our
Unsentimental Journey together through Cornwall.Many a clever critic,
like Sir Charles Coldstream when he looked into the crater of Vesuvius,
may see "nothing in it"--a few kindly readers looking a little further,
may see a little more: probably the writer only sees the whole.But such as it is, let it stay--simple memorial of what Americans would
call "a good time," the sunshine of which may cast its brightness far
forward, even into that quiet time "when travelling days are done."LONDON:
  R. CLAY, SONS, AND TAYLOR,
  BREAD STREET HILL, E.C.Then he thought of the effect of this night upon her life.What would
Clifford Belden do now?To what deeps would his rage descend if he should
come to know of it?Twice she spoke from her couch to say: "You'd better
go to bed.Daddy can't get here till to-morrow now."As the flame sank low the cold bit, and he built up the half-burned logs
so that they blazed again.He worked as silently as he could; but the
girl again spoke, with sweet authority: "Haven't you gone to bed yet?""I'm as comfortable as I deserve; it's all schooling, you know.His teeth were chattering as he spoke, but he added:
"I'm all right."After a silence she said: "You must not get chilled."Please drag your bed
inside the door.What would I do if you should have pneumonia to-morrow?You must not take any risk of a fever."The thought of a sheltered spot, of something to break the remorseless
wind, overcame his scruples, and he drew his bed inside the tent and
rearranged it there."It isn't so much the cold," he stammered."I'll get up and heat
some water for you.""I'll be all right, in a few moments," he said.I
shall be snug as a bug in a moment."She watched his shadowy motions from her bed, and when at last he had
nestled into his blankets, she said: "If you don't lose your chill I'll
heat a rock and put at your feet."He was ready to cry out in shame of his weakness; but he lay silent till
he could command his voice, then he said: "That would drive me from the
country in disgrace.Think of what the fellows down below will say when
they know of my cold feet.""They won't hear of it; and, besides, it is better to carry a hot-water
bag than to be laid up with a fever."Her anxiety lessened as his voice resumed its pleasant tenor flow."Dear
girl," he said, "no one could have been sweeter--more like a guardian
angel to me.She did not speak for a few moments, then in a voice that conveyed to him
a knowledge that his words of endearment had deeply moved her, she softly
said: "Good night."He heard her sigh drowsily thereafter once or twice, and then she slept,
and her slumber redoubled in him his sense of guardianship, of
responsibility.Lying there in the shelter of her tent, the whole
situation seemed simple, innocent, and poetic; but looked at from the
standpoint of Clifford Belden it held an accusation."The only thing we can do is to conceal
the fact that we spent the night beneath this tent alone."In the belief that the way would clear with the dawn, he, too, fell
asleep, while the fire sputtered and smudged in the fitful mountain
wind.The second dawn came slowly, as though crippled by the storm and walled
back by the clouds.Gradually, austerely, the bleak, white peaks began to
define themselves above the firs.The camp-birds called cheerily from the
wet branches which overhung the smoldering embers of the fire, and so at
last day was abroad in the sky.With a dull ache in his bones, Wayland crept out to the fire and set to
work fanning the coals with his hat, as he had seen the Supervisor do.He
worked desperately till one of the embers began to angrily sparkle and to
smoke.Then slipping away out of earshot he broke an armful of dry fir
branches to heap above the wet, charred logs.Soon these twigs broke into
flame, and Berrie, awakened by the crackle of the pine branches, called
out: "Is it daylight?""Yes, but it's a very _dark_ daylight.Don't leave your warm bed for the
dampness and cold out here; stay where you are; I'll get breakfast.""I'm afraid you had a bad night," she insisted, in a tone which indicated
her knowledge of his suffering."Camp life has its disadvantages," he admitted, as he put the coffee-pot
on the fire.I never fried a bird in my
life, but I'm going to try it this morning.I have some water heating for
your bath."He put the soap, towel, and basin of hot water just inside
the tent flap.I'm going to bathe in the lake.He heard her protesting as he went off down the bank, but his heart was
resolute."I'm not dead yet," he said, grimly."An invalid who can spend
two such nights as these, and still face a cold wind, has some vitality
in his bones after all."When he returned he found the girl full dressed, alert, and glowing; but
she greeted him with a touch of shyness and self-consciousness new to
her, and her eyes veiled themselves before his glance."_Now_, where do you suppose the Supervisor is?""I hope he's at home," she replied, quite seriously."I'd hate to think
of him camped in the high country without bedding or tent.""Oughtn't I to take a turn up the trail and see?I feel guilty somehow--I
must do something!""You can't help matters any by hoofing about in the mud.No, we'll just
hold the fort till he comes, that's what he'll expect us to do."He submitted once more to the force of her argument, and they ate
breakfast in such intimacy and good cheer that the night's discomforts
and anxieties counted for little.As the sun broke through the clouds
Berrie hung out the bedding in order that its dampness might be warmed
away."We may have to camp here again to-night," she explained, demurely."Worse things could happen than that," he gallantly answered."I wouldn't
mind a month of it, only I shouldn't want it to rain or snow all the
time.""Oh yes, after I came inside; but, of course, I was more or less restless
expecting your father to ride up, and then it's all rather exciting
business to a novice.I could hear all sorts of birds and beasts stepping
and fluttering about.I was scared in spite of my best resolution.""That's funny; I never feel that way.I slept like a log after I knew you
were comfortable.You must have a better bed and more blankets.The clouds settled over the peaks, and
ragged wisps of gray vapor dropped down the timbered <DW72>s of the
prodigious amphitheater in which the lake lay.Again Berrie made
everything snug while her young woodsman toiled at bringing logs for the
fire.In truth, he was more elated than he had been since leaving school, for
he was not only doing a man's work in the world, he was serving a woman
in the immemorial way of the hewer of wood and the carrier of water.His
fatigue and the chill of the morning wore away, and he took vast pride in
dragging long poles down the hillside, forcing Berrie to acknowledge that
he was astonishingly strong."But don't overdo it," she warned.At last fully provided for, they sat contentedly side by side under the
awning and watched the falling rain as it splashed and sizzled on the
sturdy fire."It's a little like being shipwrecked on a desert island,
isn't it?"She served potatoes and
grouse, hot biscuit with sugar syrup, and canned peaches, and coffee done
to just the right color and aroma.He declared it wonderful, and they ate
with repeated wishes that the Supervisor might turn up in time to share
their feast; but he did not.Then Berrie said, firmly: "Now you must take
a snooze, you look tired."He was, in truth, not only drowsy but lame and tired.Therefore, he
yielded to her suggestion.She covered him with blankets and put him away like a child."Now you
have a good sleep," she said, tenderly."I'll call you when daddy
comes."With a delicious sense of her protecting care he lay for a few moments
listening to the drip of the water on the tent, then drifted away into
peace and silence.When he woke the ground was again covered with snow, and the girl was
feeding the fire with wood which her own hands had supplied.Hearing him stir, she turned and fixed her eyes upon him with clear, soft
gaze."Quite made over," he replied, rising alertly.His cheer, however, was only pretense."Something
has happened to your father," he said."His horse has thrown him, or he
has slipped and fallen.""How far is
it down to the ranger station?""Don't you think we'd better close camp and go down there?It is now
three o'clock; we can walk it in five hours.""No, I think we'd better stay right here.It's a
long, hard walk, and the trail is muddy.""But, dear girl," he began, desperately, "it won't do for us to camp
here--alone--in this way another night."I don't care what Cliff thinks--I'm done
with him--and no one that I really care about would blame us."She was
fully aware of his anxiety now."It will be _my_ fault if I keep you here longer!""We must
reach a telephone and send word out."I'm not worried a bit about him.It may be that there's been a big
snowfall up above us--or else a windstorm.The trail may be blocked; but
don't worry.He may have to go round by Lost Lake pass."We'd better pack up and rack down the
trail to the ranger's cabin."I'm all right, except I'm very lame; but I am anxious to go on.By the
way, is this ranger Settle married?""No, his station is one of the lonesomest cabins on the forest."Nevertheless," he decided, "we'll go.After
all, the man is a forest officer, and you are the Supervisor's
daughter."She made no further protest, but busied herself closing the panniers and
putting away the camp utensils.She seemed to recognize that his judgment
was sound.It was after three when they left the tent and started down the trail,
carrying nothing but a few toilet articles."Should we have left a note for
the Supervisor?""There's all the writing he needs," she
assured him, leading the way at a pace which made him ache.She plashed
plumply into the first puddle in the path."No use dodging 'em," she
called over her shoulder, and he soon saw that she was right.The trees were dripping, the willows heavy with water, and the mud
ankle-deep--in places--but she pushed on steadily, and he, following in
her tracks, could only marvel at her strength and sturdy self-reliance.The swing of her shoulders, the poise of her head, and the lithe movement
of her waist, made his own body seem a poor thing.For two hours they zigzagged down a narrow canyon heavily timbered with
fir and spruce--a dark, stern avenue, crossed by roaring streams, and
filled with frequent boggy meadows whereon the water lay mid-leg deep."We'll get out of this very soon," she called, cheerily.By degrees the gorge widened, grew more open, more genial.Aspen thickets
of pale-gold flashed upon their eyes like sunlight, and grassy bunches
afforded firmer footing, but on the <DW72>s their feet slipped and slid
painfully."We must get to the middle fork
before dark," she stopped to explain, "for I don't know the trail down
there, and there's a lot of down timber just above the station.Now that
we're cut loose from our camp I feel nervous.As long as I have a tent I
am all right; but now we are in the open I worry.She studied him with keen and anxious glance, her hand upon his
arm."Fine as a fiddle," he replied, assuming a spirit he did not possess,
"but you are marvelous."I can do anything when I have to," she replied."We've got three hours
more of it."And she warningly exclaimed: "Look back there!"They had reached a point from which the range could be seen, and behold
it was covered deep with a seamless robe of new snow."That's why dad didn't get back last night.He's probably wallowing along
up there this minute."And she set off again with resolute stride.Wayland's pale face and labored breath alarmed her.She was filled with
love and pity, but she pressed forward desperately.As he grew tired, Wayland's boots, loaded with mud, became fetters, and
every <DW72> greasy with mire seemed an almost insurmountable barricade.He fell several times, but made no outcry."I will not add to her
anxiety," he said to himself.At last they came to the valley floor, over which a devastating fire had
run some years before, and which was still covered with fallen trees in
desolate confusion.She kept on
toward the river, although Wayland called attention to a trail leading to
the right up over the low grassy hills.For a mile the path was clear,
but she soon found herself confronted by an endless maze of blackened
tree-trunks, and at last the path ended abruptly.Dismayed and halting, she said: "We've got to go back to that trail which
branched off to the right.I reckon that was the highland trail which
Settle made to keep out of the swamp.I thought it was a trail from
Cameron Peak, but it wasn't.She was suffering keenly now, not on her own account, but on his, for she
could see that he was very tired, and to climb up that hill again was
like punishing him a second time.When she picked up the blazed trail it was so dark that she could
scarcely follow it; but she felt her way onward, turning often to be sure
that he was following.Once she saw him fall, and cried out: "It's a
shame to make you climb this hill again.I ought to
have known that that lower road led down into the timber."Standing close beside him in the darkness, knowing that he was weary,
wet, and ill, she permitted herself the expression of her love and pity.Putting her arm about him, she drew his cheek against her own, saying:
"Poor boy, your hands are cold as ice."She took them in her own warm
clasp."Oh, I wish we had never left the camp!"I shall never forgive
myself if you--" Her voice failed her.[Illustration: SHE FOUND HERSELF CONFRONTED BY AN ENDLESS MAZE
OF BLACKENED TREE-TRUNKS]

He bravely reassured her: "I'm not defeated, I'm just tired.It's better
to keep moving, anyhow."She thrust her hand under his coat and laid it over his heart."You are
tired out," she said, and there was anguish in her voice.And, hark, there's a
wolf!""I hear him; but we are both armed.VIII

THE OTHER GIRL


The girl's voice stirred the benumbed youth into action again, and he
followed her mechanically.His slender stock of physical strength was
almost gone, but his will remained unbroken.At every rough place she
came back to him to support him, to hearten him, and so he crept on
through the darkness, falling often, stumbling against the trees,
slipping and sliding, till at last his guide, pitching down a sharp
<DW72>, came directly upon a wire fence."Here is a fence, and the cabin should be near,
although I see no light.No voice replied, and, keeping Wayland's hand, she felt her way along the
fence till it revealed a gate; then she turned toward the roaring of the
stream, which grew louder as they advanced."The cabin is near the falls,
that much I know," she assured him.Then a moment later she joyfully
cried out: "Here it is!"Out of the darkness a blacker, sharper shadow rose.Again she called, but
no one answered."The ranger is away," she exclaimed, in a voice of
indignant alarm."I do hope he left the door unlocked."Too numb with fatigue, and too dazed by the darkness to offer any aid,
Wayland waited--swaying unsteadily on his feet--while she tried the door.It was bolted, and with but a moment's hesitation, she said: "It looks
like a case of breaking and entering.The windows,
too, were securely fastened.After trying them all, she came back to
where Wayland stood."Tony didn't intend to have anybody pushing in," she
decided."But if the windows will not raise they will smash."A crash of glass followed, and with a feeling that it was all part of a
dream, Wayland waited while the girl made way through the broken sash
into the dark interior.Her next utterance was a cry of joy: "Oh, but
it's nice and warm in here!You'll have to come in
the same way I did."He was too weak and too irresolute to respond immediately, and, reaching
out, she took him by the arms and dragged him across the sill.A delicious warmth, a grateful dryness, a
sense of shelter enfolded him like a garment.The place smelled
deliciously of food, of fire, of tobacco.Leading him toward the middle of the room, Berrie said: "Stand here till
I strike a light."As her match flamed up Norcross found himself in a rough-walled cabin, in
which stood a square cook-stove, a rude table littered with dishes, and
three stools made of slabs.It was all very rude; but it had all the
value of a palace at the moment.She located an oil-lamp, some
pine-wood, and a corner cupboard.In a few moments the lamp was lit, the
stove refilled with fuel, and she was stripping Wayland's wet coat from
his back, cheerily discoursing as she did so."Here's one of Tony's old
jackets, put that on while I see if I can't find some dry stockings for
you.Sit right down here by the stove; put your feet in the oven.I'll
have a fire in a jiffy.Now I'll start the
coffee-pot."She soon found the coffee, but it was unground."Wonder,
where he keeps his coffee-mill."She rummaged about for a few minutes,
then gave up the search."Well, no matter, here's the coffee, and here's
a hammer.One of the laws of the trail is this: If you can't do a thing
one way, do it another."She poured the coffee beans into an empty tomato-can and began to pound
them with the end of the hammer handle, laughing at Wayland's look of
wonder and admiration."Necessity sure is the mother of invention out
here.Isn't it nice to own a roof and four walls?I'm going to close up that window as soon as I get the coffee started."Oh yes, I'm all right now," he replied; but he didn't look it, and her
own cheer was rather forced.He was in the grasp of a nervous chill, and
she was deeply apprehensive of what the result of his exposure might be.It seemed as if the coffee would never come to a boil."I depend on that to brace you up," she said.After hanging a blanket over the broken window, she set out some cold
meat and a half dozen baking-powder biscuits, which she found in the
cupboard, and as soon as the coffee was ready she poured it for him; but
she would not let him leave the fire.She brought his supper to him and
sat beside him while he ate and drank."You must go right to bed," she urged, as she studied his weary eyes."You ought to sleep for twenty-four hours."The hot, strong coffee revived him physically and brought back a little
of his courage, and he said: "I'm ashamed to be such a weakling.""It's not your fault that you are weak.Now,
while I am eating my supper you slip off your wet clothes and creep into
Tony's bunk, and I'll fill one of these syrup-cans with hot water to put
at your feet."It was of no use for him to protest against her further care.She
insisted, and while she ate he meekly carried out her instructions, and
from the delicious warmth and security of his bed watched her moving
about the stove till the shadows of the room became one with the dusky
figures of his sleep.A moment later something falling on the floor woke him with a start, and,
looking up, he found the sun shining, and Berrie confronting him with
anxious face.I'm
trying to be extra quiet.How do you feel this
_morning_?""Is it to-morrow or the next week?"Just keep where you are
till the sun gets a little higher."She drew near and put a hand on his
brow.Oh, I hope this trip hasn't set you
back."He laid his hands together, and then felt of his pulse."I don't seem to
have a temperature.I just feel lazy, limp and lazy; but I'm going to get
up, if you'll just leave the room for a moment--"

"Don't try it now.He yielded again to the force of her will, and fell back into a luxurious
drowse hearing the stove roar and the bacon sizzle in the pan.There was
something primitive and broadly poetic in the girl's actions.Through the
haze of the kitchen smoke she enlarged till she became the typical
frontier wife, the goddess of the skillet and the coffee-pot, the consort
of the pioneer, equally skilled with the rifle and the rolling-pin.How
many millions of times had this scene been enacted on the long march of
the borderman from the Susquehanna to the Bear Tooth Range?Into his epic vision the pitiful absurdity of his own part in the play
broke like a sad discord."Of course, it is not my fault that I am a
weakling," he argued."Only it was foolish for me to thrust myself into
this stern world.If I come safely out of this adventure I will go back
to the sheltered places where I belong."At this point came again the disturbing realization that this night of
struggle, and the ministrations of his brave companion had involved him
deeper in a mesh from which honorable escape was almost impossible.The
ranger's cabin, so far from being an end of their compromising intimacy,
had added and was still adding to the weight of evidence against them
both.The presence of the ranger or the Supervisor himself could not now
save Berea from the gossips.She brought his breakfast to him, and sat beside him while he ate,
chatting the while of their good fortune."It is glorious outside, and I
am sure daddy will get across to-day, and Tony is certain to turn up
before noon.He probably went down to Coal City to get his mail.""I must get up at once," he said, in a panic of fear and shame."The
Supervisor must not find me laid out on my back.She went out, closing the door behind her, and as he crawled from his bed
every muscle in his body seemed to cry out against being moved.Nevertheless, he persisted, and at last succeeded in putting on his
clothes, even his shoes--though he found tying the laces the hardest task
of all--and he was at the wash-basin bathing his face and hands when
Berrie hurriedly re-entered."Some tourists are coming," she announced,
in an excited tone."A party of five or six people, a woman among them,
is just coming down the <DW72>.Now, who do you suppose it can be?It
would be just our luck if it should turn out to be some one from the
Mill."He divined at once the reason for her dismay.The visit of a woman at
this moment would not merely embarrass them both, it would torture
Berrie."Nothing; all we can do is to stand pat and act as if we belonged here.""Very well," he replied, moving stiffly toward the door."Here's where I
can be of some service.As our hero crawled out into the brilliant sunshine some part of his
courage came back to him.Though lame in every muscle, he was not ill.His head was clear, and his breath full
and deep."My lungs are all right," he said to himself."I'm not going to
collapse."And he looked round him with a new-born admiration of the
wooded hills which rose in somber majesty on either side the roaring
stream."How different it all looks this morning," he said, remembering
the deep blackness of the night.The beat of hoofs upon the bridge drew his attention to the cavalcade,
which the keen eyes of the girl had detected as it came over the ridge to
the east.The party consisted of two men and two women and three
pack-horses completely outfitted for the trail.One of the women, spurring her horse to the front, rode serenely up to
where Wayland stood, and called out: "Good morning.He perceived at once that the speaker was an alien like himself, for she
wore tan- riding-boots, a divided skirt of expensive cloth, and a
jaunty, wide-rimmed sombrero.She looked, indeed, precisely like the
heroine of the prevalent Western drama.Her sleeves, rolled to the elbow,
disclosed shapely brown arms, and her neck, bare to her bosom, was
equally sun-smit; but she was so round-cheeked, so childishly charming,
that the most critical observer could find no fault with her make-up.What are _you_ doing over here,
may I ask?"Moore, this is Norcross, one of
McFarlane's men.Moore is connected with the tie-camp operations of
the railway."Moore was a tall, thin man with a gray beard and keen blue eyes."We started together, but the horses got away, and he was obliged to go
back after them."I am frightfully hungry," interrupted the girl."Can't you hand me out a
hunk of bread and meat?"Good morning, Miss McFarlane, I didn't
know you were here.Belden, of course, you know."Belden, the fourth member of the party, a middle-aged, rather flabby
person, just being eased down from her horse, turned on Berrie with a
battery of questions.Berrie McFarlane, what are you doing
over in this forsaken hole?If Cliff
had known you was over here he'd have come, too.""Come in and get some coffee, and
we'll straighten things out."Belden did not know that Cliff and Berrie had quarreled,
for she treated the girl with maternal familiarity.She was a
good-natured, well-intentioned old sloven, but a most renowned tattler,
and the girl feared her more than she feared any other woman in the
valley.She had always avoided her, but she showed nothing of this
dislike at the moment.Wayland drew the younger woman's attention by saying: "It's plain that
you, like myself, do not belong to these parts, Miss Moore."Haven't you noticed that the women who
live out here carefully avoid convenient and artistic dress?Now your
outfit is precisely what they should wear and don't.""I know, but they all say they have to wear out their
Sunday go-to-meeting clothes, whereas I can 'rag out proper.'I'm glad
you like my 'rig.'""When I look at you," he said, "I'm back on old Broadway at the Herald
Square Theater.The play is 'Little Blossom, or the Cowgirl's Revenge.'The heroine has just come into the miner's cabin--"

"Oh, go 'long," she replied, seizing her cue and speaking in character,
"you're stringin' me."Your outfit is a peacherino," he declared.At the moment he was bent on drawing the girl's attention from Berrie,
but as she went on he came to like her.She said: "No, I don't belong
here; but I come out every year during vacation with my father.Father has built a little
bungalow down at the lower mill, and we enjoy every day of our stay.""You're a Smith girl," he abruptly asserted."Oh, there's something about you Smith girls that gives you dead away."I like Smith girls," he hastened to say; and
in five minutes they were on the friendliest terms--talking of mutual
acquaintances--a fact which both puzzled and hurt Berea.Their laughter
angered her, and whenever she glanced at them and detected Siona looking
into Wayland's face with coquettish simper, she was embittered.She was
glad when Moore came in and interrupted the dialogue.Norcross did not relax, though he considered the dangers of
cross-examination almost entirely passed.In this he was mistaken, for no
sooner was the keen edge of Mrs.Belden's hunger dulled than her
curiosity sharpened."The horses got away, and he had to go back after them," again responded
Berrie, who found the scrutiny of the other girl deeply disconcerting."Any minute now," she replied, and in this she was not deceiving them,
although she did not intend to volunteer any information which might
embarrass either Wayland or herself.It's romantic enough to be the
back-drop in a Bret Harte play."I know a Norcross, a Michigan lumberman,
Vice-President of the Association.Is he, by any chance, a relative?""Only a father," retorted Wayland, with a smile."But don't hold me
responsible for anything he has done.And what is the son of W. W.
Norcross doing out here in the Forest Service?"The change in her father's tone was not lost upon Siona, who ceased her
banter and studied the young man with deeper interest, while Mrs.Belden,
detecting some restraint in Berrie's tone, renewed her questioning:
"Where did you camp last night?""I don't see how the horses got away.There's a pasture here, for we rode
right through it."Berrie was aware that each moment of delay in explaining the situation
looked like evasion, and deepened the significance of her predicament,
and yet she could not bring herself to the task of minutely accounting
for her time during the last two days.We're
going into camp at the mouth of the West Fork," he said, as he rose."Tell Tony and the Supervisor that we want to line out that timber at the
earliest possible moment."Siona, who was now distinctly coquetting with Wayland, held out her hand."I hope you'll find time to come up and see us.I know we have other
mutual friends, if we had time to get at them."I'm not at all
sure that I shall have a moment's leave; but I will call if I can
possibly do so."They started off at last without having learned in detail anything of the
intimate relationship into which the Supervisor's daughter and young
Norcross had been thrown, and Mrs.Belden was still so much in the dark
that she called to Berrie: "I'm going to send word to Cliff that you are
over here.He'll be crazy to come the minute he finds it out.""That would be pleasant," he said, smilingly.On the contrary, she remained very
grave."I wish that old tale-bearer had kept away.She's going to make
trouble for us all.And that girl, isn't she a spectacle?She seems a very nice, sprightly person."Why does she go
around with her sleeves rolled up that way, and--and her dress open at
the throat?""Oh, those are the affectations of the moment.She wants to look tough
and boisterous.That's the fad with all the girls, just now.It's only a
harmless piece of foolishness."She could not tell him how deeply she resented his ready tone of
camaraderie with the other girl; but she was secretly suffering.It hurt
her to think that he could forget his aches and be so free and easy with
a stranger at a moment's notice.Under the influence of that girl's smile
he seemed to have quite forgotten his exhaustion and his pain.It was
wonderful how cheerful he had been while she was in sight.In all this Berrie did him an injustice.He had been keenly conscious,
during every moment of the time, not only of his bodily ills, but of
Berrie, and he had kept a brave face in order that he might prevent
further questioning on the part of a malicious girl.It was his only way
of being heroic.Now that the crisis was passed he was quite as much of a
wreck as ever."I hope they won't happen to meet father on the
trail.""Perhaps I should go with them and warn him.""Oh, it doesn't matter," she wearily answered.Belden will
never rest till she finds out just where we've been, and just what we've
done.He understood her fear, and yet he was unable to comfort her in the only
way she could be comforted.That brief encounter with Siona Moore--a girl
of his own world--had made all thought of marriage with Berea suddenly
absurd.Without losing in any degree the sense of gratitude he felt for
her protecting care, and with full acknowledgment of her heroic support
of his faltering feet, he revolted from putting into words a proposal of
marriage."I love her," he confessed to himself, "and she is a dear,
brave girl; but I do not love her as a man should love the woman he is to
marry."Berea sensed the change in
his attitude, and traced it to the influence of the coquette whose
smiling eyes and bared arms had openly challenged admiration.It saddened
her to think that one so fine as he had seemed could yield even momentary
tribute to an open and silly coquette.IX

FURTHER PERPLEXITIES


Wayland, for his part, was not deceived by Siona Moore.He knew her kind,
and understood her method of attack.He liked her pert ways, for they
brought back his days at college, when dozens of just such misses lent
grace and humor and romance to the tennis court and to the football
field.She carried with her the aroma of care-free, athletic girlhood.Flirtation was in her as charming and almost as meaningless as the
preening of birds on the bank of a pool in the meadow.Speaking aloud, he said: "Miss Moore travels the trail with all known
accessories, and I've no doubt she thinks she is a grand campaigner; but
I am wondering how she would stand such a trip as that you took last
night.I don't believe she could have done as well as I. She's the
imitation--you're the real thing."The praise involved in this speech brought back a little of Berrie's
humor."I reckon those brown boots of hers would have melted," she said,
with quaint smile."If it had not been for you, dear girl, I would be
lying up there in the forest this minute.Nothing but your indomitable
spirit kept me moving.I shall be deeply hurt if any harm comes to you on
account of me.""If it hadn't been for me you wouldn't have started on that trip last
night.It would have been better for us both if
we had stayed in camp, for we wouldn't have met these people.""That's true," he replied; "but we didn't know that at the time.We acted
for the best, and we must not blame ourselves, no matter what comes of
it."They fell silent at this point, for each was again conscious of their new
relationship.She, vaguely suffering, waited for him to resume the
lover's tone, while he, oppressed by the sense of his own shortcomings
and weakness, was planning an escape."It's all nonsense, my remaining in
the forest.I'll tell McFarlane
so and get out."Perceiving his returning weakness and depression, Berea insisted on his
lying down again while she set to work preparing dinner."There is no
telling when father will get here," she said."And Tony will be hungry
when he comes.He obeyed her silently, and, going to the bunk, at once fell asleep.How
long he slept he could not tell, but he was awakened by the voice of the
ranger, who was standing in the doorway and regarding Berrie with a
round-eyed stare.He was a tall, awkward fellow of about thirty-five, plainly of the
frontier type; but a man of intelligence.At the end of a brief
explanation Berrie said, with an air of authority: "Now you'd better ride
up the trail and bring our camp outfit down.We can't go back that way,
anyhow.""All right, Miss Berrie, but perhaps
your tenderfoot needs a doctor."I'm a
little lame, that's all.Get up
your horses, Tony, and by that time I'll have some dinner ready.""All right, Miss Berrie," replied the man, and turned away.Hardly had he crossed the bridge on his way to the pasture, when Berrie
cried out: "There comes daddy."Wayland joined her at the door, and stood beside her watching the
Supervisor, as he came zigzagging down the steep hill to the east, with
all his horses trailing behind him roped together head-to-tail."He's had to come round by Lost Lake," she exclaimed."He'll be tired
out, and absolutely starved.she shouted in greeting, and the
Supervisor waved his hand.There was something superb in the calm seat of the veteran as he slid
down the <DW72>.He kept his place in the saddle with the air of the rider
to whom hunger, fatigue, windfalls, and snowslides were all a part of the
day's work; and when he reined in before the door and dropped from his
horse, he put his arm about his daughter's neck with quiet word: "I
thought I'd find you here."All right, daddy; but what about you?The blamed cayuses kept just ahead of me all
the way."I couldn't get back over the high pass.Had to
go round by Lost Lake, and to cap all, Old Baldy took a notion not to
lead.Oh, I've had a peach of a time; but here I am."Yes, they're in camp up the trail.He and Alec Belden and two women.Norcross, take my horses down to the pasture.""Let me do that, daddy, Mr.You see, we started down here late yesterday afternoon.It was
raining and horribly muddy, and I took the wrong trail.The darkness
caught us and we didn't reach the station till nearly midnight.""I guess I made a mistake, Supervisor;
I'm not fitted for this strenuous life.""I didn't intend to pitchfork you into
the forest life quite so suddenly," he said.Nevertheless Wayland went out, believing that Berrie wished to be alone
with her father for a short time.As he took his seat McFarlane said: "You stayed in camp till yesterday
afternoon, did you?""Yes, we were expecting you every moment.""Yes, a little; it mostly rained.""It stormed up on the divide like a January blizzard."I'll ride right up and see them.That's at the
lake, I reckon?""Yes, I was just sending Tony after it.But, father, if you go up to
Moore's camp, don't say too much about what has happened.Don't tell them
just when you took the back-trail, and just how long Wayland and I were
in camp.""Because--You know what an old gossip Mrs.She's an awful talker, and our being
together up there all that time will give her a chance."A light broke in on the Supervisor's brain.In the midst of his
preoccupation as a forester he suddenly became the father.His eyes
narrowed and his face darkened.The old rip could make a
whole lot of capital out of your being left in camp that way.At the same
time I don't believe in dodging.The worst thing we could do would be to
try to blind the trail."No, he was down the valley after his mail.""That's another piece of bad luck, too.How much
does the old woman know at present?""Didn't she cross-examine you?""Sure she did; but Wayland side-tracked her.She'll know all about it sooner or later.She's great at putting
two and two together."Cliff will be plumb crazy if she gets his ear first.""I don't care anything about Cliff, daddy.I don't care what he thinks or
does, if he will only let Wayland alone.""See here, daughter, you do seem to be terribly interested in this
tourist.""He's the finest man I ever knew, father."He looked at her with tender, trusting glance."He isn't your kind,
daughter.He's a nice clean boy, but he's different.I know he's different, that's why I like
him."After a pause she added: "Nobody could have been nicer all through
these days than he has been.McFarlane fixed a keen glance upon her."Not the way you mean, daddy; but I think he--likes me.He's the son of W. W. Norcross, that big
Michigan lumberman."Moore asked him if he was any relation to W.W.Norcross, and he
said, 'Yes, a son.'You should have seen how that Moore girl changed her
tune the moment he admitted that.She'd been very free with him up to
that time; but when she found out he was a rich man's son she became as
quiet and innocent as a kitten.I hate her; she's a deceitful snip.""Well, now, daughter, that being the case, it's all the more certain that
he don't belong to our world, and you mustn't fix your mind on keeping
him here.""A girl can't help fixing her mind, daddy."You liked
him well enough to promise to marry him.""I know I did; but I despise him now."He isn't so much to blame after all.Any man is likely to
flare out when he finds another fellow cutting in ahead of him.Why, here
you are wanting to kill Siona Moore just for making up to your young
tourist."But the thing we've got to guard against is
old lady Belden's tongue.She and that Belden gang have it in for me, and
all that has kept them from open war has been Cliff's relationship to
you.They'll take a keen delight in making the worst of all this camping
business.""I wish your mother was here
this minute.I guess we had better cut out this timber cruise and go
right back.""No, you mustn't do that; that would only make more talk.It won't take you but a couple of days to
do the work, and Wayland needs the rest.""But suppose Cliff hears of this business between you and Norcross and
comes galloping over the ridge?""Well, let him, he has no claim on me.""It's all mighty risky business, and it's my fault.I
should never have permitted you to start on this trip.""Don't you worry about me, daddy, I'll pull through somehow.Anybody that
knows me will understand how little there is in--in old lady Belden's
gab.I've had a beautiful trip, and I won't let her nor anybody else
spoil it for me."He was afraid to
meet the Beldens.He dreaded their questions, their innuendoes.He had
perfect faith in his daughter's purity and honesty, and he liked and
trusted Norcross, and yet he knew that should Belden find it to his
advantage to slander these young people, and to read into their action
the lawlessness of his own youth, Berea's reputation, high as it was,
would suffer, and her mother's heart be rent with anxiety.In his growing
pain and perplexity he decided to speak frankly to young Norcross
himself."He's a gentleman, and knows the way of the world.Perhaps he'll
have some suggestion to offer."In his heart he hoped to learn that
Wayland loved his daughter and wished to marry her.Wayland was down on the bridge leaning over the rail, listening to the
song of the water.McFarlane approached gravely, but when he spoke it was in his usual soft
monotone.Norcross," he began, with candid inflection, "I am very
sorry to say it; but I wish you and my daughter had never started on this
trip.""I know what you mean, Supervisor, and I feel as you do about it.Of
course, none of us foresaw any such complication as this, but now that we
are snarled up in it we'll have to make the best of it.The youth's frank words and his sympathetic voice disarmed McFarlane
completely."It's no use
saying _if_," he remarked, at length."What we've got to meet is Seth
Belden's report--Berrie has cut loose from Cliff, and he's red-headed
already.When he drops onto this story, when he learns that I had to
chase back after the horses, and that you and Berrie were alone together
for three days, he'll have a fine club to swing, and he'll swing it; and
Alec will help him.They're all waiting a chance to get me, and they're
mean enough to get me through my girl.""I'll try to head off Marm Belden, and I'll have a
talk with Moore."But you forget there's another tale-bearer.There's no
use trying to cover anything up."Here was the place for Norcross to speak up and say: "Never mind, I'm
going to ask Berrie to be my wife."Something rose
in his throat which prevented speech.A strange repugnance, a kind of
sullen resentment at being forced into a declaration, kept him silent,
and McFarlane, disappointed, wondering and hurt, kept silence also."Of course those who know your daughter
will not listen for an instant to the story of an unclean old thing like
Mrs."I'm not so sure about that," replied the father, gloomily."People
always listen to such stories, and a girl always gets the worst of a
situation like this.Berrie's been brought up to take care of herself,
and she's kept clear of criticism so far; but with Cliff on edge and this
old rip snooping around--" His mind suddenly changed."Your being the son
of a rich man won't help any.Why didn't you tell me who you were?"I have
nothing to do with my father's business.His notions of forest
speculation are not mine.""It would have made a difference with me, and it might have made a
difference with Berrie.She mightn't have been so free with you at the
start, if she'd known who you were.You looked sick and kind of lonesome,
and that worked on her sympathy.""I _was_ sick and I was lonesome, and she has been very sweet and lovely
to me, and it breaks my heart to think that her kindness and your
friendship should bring all this trouble and suspicion upon her.Let's go
up to the Moore camp and have it out with them.I'll make any statement
you think best.""I reckon the less said about it the better," responded the older man."I'm going up to the camp, but not to talk about my daughter.""If they do, I'll force them to let it alone," retorted McFarlane; but he
went away disappointed and sorrowful.The young man's evident avoidance
of the subject of marriage hurt him.He did not perceive, as Norcross
did, that to make an announcement of his daughter's engagement at this
moment would be taken as a confession of shameful need.It is probable
that Berrie herself would not have seen this further complication.Each hour added to Wayland's sense of helplessness and bitterness.I can neither help Berrie nor help myself.Nothing remains for
me but flight, and flight will also be a confession of guilt."Once again, and in far more definite terms, he perceived the injustice of
the world toward women.Here with Berrie, as in ages upon ages of other
times, the maiden must bear the burden of reproach."In me it will be
considered a joke, a romantic episode, in her a degrading misdemeanor.When he re-entered the cabin the Supervisor had returned from the camp,
and something in his manner, as well as in Berrie's, revealed the fact
that the situation had not improved."They forced me into a corner," McFarlane said to Wayland, peevishly."I
lied out of one night; but they know that you were here last night.Of
course, they were respectful enough so long as I had an eye on them, but
their tongues are wagging now."The rest of the evening was spent in talk on the forest, and in going
over the ranger's books, for the Supervisor continued to plan for
Wayland's stay at this station, and the young fellow thought it best not
to refuse at the moment.As bedtime drew near Settle took a blanket and went to the corral, and
Berrie insisted that her father and Wayland occupy the bunk.Norcross protested; but the Supervisor said: "Let her alone.She's better
able to sleep on the floor than either of us."This was perfectly true; but, in spite of his bruised and aching body,
the youth would gladly have taken her place beside the stove.It seemed
pitifully unjust that she should have this physical hardship in addition
to her uneasiness of mind.X

THE CAMP ON THE PASS


Berea suffered a restless night, the most painful and broken she had
known in all her life.She acknowledged that Siona Moore was prettier,
and that she stood more nearly on Wayland's plane than herself; but the
realization of this fact did not bring surrender--she was not of that
temper.All her life she had been called upon to combat the elements, to
hold her own amidst rude men and inconsiderate women, and she had no
intention of yielding her place to a pert coquette, no matter what the
gossips might say.She had seen this girl many times, but had refused to
visit her house.She had held her in contempt, now she quite cordially
hated her."She shall not have her way with Wayland," she decided."I know what she
wants--she wants him at her side to-morrow; but I will not have it so.She is trying to get him away from me."The more she dwelt on this the hotter her jealous fever burned.The floor
on which she lay was full of knots.She could not lose herself in sleep,
tired as she was.The planks no longer turned their soft spots to her
flesh, and she rolled from side to side in torment.She would have arisen
and dressed only she did not care to disturb the men."I shall go home the morrow and take
Wayland with me.I will not have him going with that girl--that's
settled!"The very thought of his taking Siona's hand in greeting angered
her beyond reason.She had put Cliff Belden completely out of her mind, and this was
characteristic of her.She had no divided interests, no subtleties, no
subterfuges.Forthright, hot-blooded, frank and simple, she had centered
all her care, all her desires, on this pale youth whose appeal was at
once mystic and maternal; but her pity was changing to something deeper,
for she was convinced that he was gaining in strength, that he was in no
danger of relapse.The hard trip of the day before had seemingly done him
no permanent injury; on the contrary, a few hours' rest had almost
restored him to his normal self."To-morrow he will be able to ride
again."And this thought reconciled her to her hard bed.She did not look
beyond the long, delicious day which they must spend in returning to the
Springs.She fell asleep at last, and was awakened only by her father tinkering
about the stove.She rose alertly, signing to the Supervisor not to disturb her patient.However, Norcross also heard the rattle of the poker, opened his eyes and
regarded Berrie with sleepy smile."Good morning, if it _is_ morning," he
said, slowly.How could I have overslept like this?Makes me think
of the Irishman who, upon being awakened to an early breakfast like this,
ate it, then said to his employer, an extra thrifty farmer, 'Two suppers
in wan night--and hurrah for bed again.'""I feel like a hound-pup, to
be snoring on a downy couch like this while you were roughing it on the
floor.That is, I'm sore here and there, but I'm
feeling wonderfully well.Do you know, I begin to hope that I can finally
dominate the wilderness.Wouldn't it be wonderful if I got so I could
ride and walk as you do, for instance?The fact that I'm not dead this
morning is encouraging."He drew on his shoes as he talked, while she
went about her toilet, which was quite as simple as his own.She had
spent two nights in her day dress with almost no bathing facilities; but
that didn't trouble her.She washed her face
and hands in Settle's tin basin, but drew the line at his rubber comb.There was a distinct charm in seeing her thus adapting herself to the
cabin, a charm quite as powerful as that which emanated from Siona
Moore's dainty and theatrical personality.What it was he could not
define, but the forester's daughter had something primeval about her,
something close to the soil, something which aureoles the old Saxon
words--_wife_ and _home_ and _fireplace_.Seeing her through the savory
steam of the bacon she was frying, he forgot her marvelous skill as
horsewoman and pathfinder, and thought of her only as the housewife.She
belonged here, in this cabin.She was fitted to this landscape, whereas
the other woman was alien and dissonant.He moved his arms about and shook his legs with comical effect of trying
to see if they were still properly hinged.No one can accuse me of being a 'lunger' now.Last night's sleep
has made a new man of me.I've met the forest and it is mine.""I'm mighty glad to hear you say
that.I was terribly afraid that long, hard walk in the rain had been too
much for you.I reckon you're all right for the work now."He recalled, as she spoke, her anguish of pity while they stood in the
darkness of the trail, and it seemed that he could go no farther, and he
said, soberly: "It must have seemed to you one while as if I were all in."You mustn't try any more such
stunts--not for a few weeks, anyway.He went out into the morning exultantly, and ran down to the river to
bathe his face and hands, allured by its splendid voice.The world seemed
very bright and beautiful and health-giving once more.As soon as she was alone with her father, Berrie said: "I'm going home
to-day, dad.""I can't say I blame you any.This
has been a rough trip; but we'll go up and bring down the outfit, and
then we men can sleep in the tent and let you have the bunk--you'll be
comfortable to-night.""Oh, I don't mind sleeping on the floor," she replied; "but I want to get
back.Another thing, you'd better use
Mr.Norcross at the Springs instead of leaving him here with Tony.""Well, he isn't quite well enough to run the risk.It's a long way from
here to a doctor.""He 'pears to be on deck this morning.Besides, I haven't anything in the
office to offer him."Landon needs help, and he's a better
forester than Tony, anyway.""Cliff will reach him if he wants to--no matter where
he is.And then, too, Landon likes Mr.Norcross and will see that he is
not abused."John went back to the bathroom.McFarlane ruminated over her suggestion, well knowing that she was
planning this change in order that she might have Norcross a little
nearer, a little more accessible."I don't know but you're right.Landon is almost as good a hustler as
Tony, and a much better forester.I thought of sending Norcross up there
at first, but he told me that Frank and his gang had it in for him.Of
course, he's only nominally in the service; but I want him to begin
right.""I want him to ride back with me to-day.""Do you think that a wise thing to
do?"We'll start early and ride straight through.""You'll have to go by Lost Lake, and that means a long, hard hike.It's the walking at a high altitude that does him
up.Furthermore, Cliff may turn up here, and I don't want another
mix-up.""I ought to go back with you; but Moore is over
here to line out a cutting, and I must stay on for a couple of days."No, Tony would be a nuisance and would do no good.Another day on the
trail won't add to Mrs.If she wants to be mean she's got
all the material for it already."McFarlane, perceiving that she had set her
heart on this ride, and having perfect faith in her skill and judgment on
the trail, finally said: "Well, if you do so, the quicker you start the
better.With the best of luck you can't pull in before eight o'clock, and
you'll have to ride hard to do that.""If I find we can't make it I'll pull into a ranch.When Wayland came in the Supervisor inquired: "Do you feel able to ride
back over the hill to-day?"It isn't the riding that uses me up; it is the walking;
and, besides, as candidate for promotion I must obey orders--especially
orders to march."They breakfasted hurriedly, and while McFarlane and Tony were bringing in
the horses Wayland and Berrie set the cabin to rights.Working thus side
by side, she recovered her dominion over him, and at the same time
regained her own cheerful self-confidence.he exclaimed, as he watched her deft adjustment of the
dishes and furniture."I have to be to hold my job," she laughingly replied."A feller must
play all the parts when he's up here."It was still early morning as they mounted and set off up the trail; but
Moore's camp was astir, and as McFarlane turned in--much against Berrie's
will--the lumberman and his daughter both came out to meet them."Come in
and have some breakfast," said Siona, with cordial inclusiveness, while
her eyes met Wayland's glance with mocking glee."Thank you," said McFarlane, "we can't stop.I'm going to set my daughter
over the divide.She has had enough camping, and Norcross is pretty well
battered up, so I'm going to help them across.I'll be back to-night, and
we'll take our turn up the valley to-morrow.Berrie did not mind her father's explanation; on the contrary, she took a
distinct pleasure in letting the other girl know of the long and intimate
day she was about to spend with her young lover.Siona, too adroit to display her disappointment, expressed polite regret."I hope you won't get storm-bound," she said, showing her white teeth in
a meaning smile."If there is any sign of a storm we won't cross," declared McFarlane."We're going round by the lower pass, anyhow.If I'm not here by dark,
you may know I've stayed to set 'em down at the Mill."There was charm in Siona's alert poise, and in the neatness of her camp
dress.Her dainty tent, with its stools and rugs, made the wilderness
seem but a park.She reminded Norcross of the troops of tourists of the
Tyrol, and her tent was of a kind to harmonize with the tea-houses on the
path to the summit of the Matterhorn.Then, too, something triumphantly
feminine shone in her bright eyes and glowed in her softly rounded
cheeks.Her hand was little and pointed, not fitted like Berrie's for
tightening a cinch or wielding an ax, and as he said "Good-by," he added:
"I hope I shall see you again soon," and at the moment he meant it."We'll return to the Springs in a few days," she replied.Our bungalow is on the other side of the river--and you, too," she
addressed Berrie; but her tone was so conventionally polite that the
ranch-girl, burning with jealous heat, made no reply.McFarlane led the way to the lake rapidly and in silence.The splendors
of the foliage, subdued by the rains, the grandeur of the peaks, the song
of the glorious stream--all were lost on Berrie, for she now felt herself
to be nothing but a big, clumsy, coarse-handed tomboy.Her worn gloves,
her faded skirt, and her man's shoes had been made hateful to her by that
smug, graceful, play-acting tourist with the cool, keen eyes and smirking
lips."She pretends to be a kitten; but she isn't; she's a sly grown-up
cat," she bitterly accused, but she could not deny the charm of her
personality.Wayland was forced to acknowledge that Berrie in this dark mood was not
the delightful companion she had hitherto been.Something sweet and
confiding had gone out of their relationship, and he was too keen-witted
not to know what it was.He estimated precisely the value of the
malicious parting words of Siona Moore."She's a natural tease, the kind
of woman who loves to torment other and less fortunate women.She cares
nothing for me, of course, it's just her way of paying off old scores.It
would seem that Berrie has not encouraged her advances in times past."That Berrie was suffering, and that her jealousy touchingly proved the
depth of her love for him, brought no elation, only perplexity.As a companion on the trail she had been a
joy--as a jealous sweetheart she was less admirable.He realized
perfectly that this return journey was of her arrangement, not
McFarlane's, and while he was not resentful of her care, he was in doubt
of the outcome.It hurried him into a further intimacy which might prove
embarrassing.At the camp by the lake the Supervisor became sharply commanding."Now
let's throw these packs on lively.It will be slippery on the high trail,
and you'll just naturally have to hit leather hard and keep jouncing if
you reach the wagon-road before dark.Don't you worry about
that for a minute.Once I get out of the green timber the dark won't
worry me.In packing the camp stuff on the saddles, Berrie, almost as swift and
powerful as her father, acted with perfect understanding of every task,
and Wayland's admiration of her skill increased mightily."We don't need you," she said.McFarlane's faith in his daughter had been tested many times, and yet he
was a little loath to have her start off on a trail new to her.He argued
against it briefly, but she laughed at his fears."I can go anywhere you
can," she said."You'll have to keep off the boggy meadows," he warned; "these rains will
have softened all those muck-holes on the other side; they'll be
bottomless pits; watch out for 'em.Keep in touch with Landon,
and if anybody turns up from the district office say I'll be back on
Friday.Berea led the way, and Norcross fell in behind the pack-horses, feeling
as unimportant as a small boy at the heels of a circus parade.His girl
captain was so competent, so self-reliant, and so sure that nothing he
could say or do assisted in the slightest degree.Her leadership was a
curiously close reproduction of her father's unhurried and graceful
action.Her seat in the saddle was as easy as Landon's, and her eyes were
alert to every rock and stream in the road.She was at home here, where
the other girl would have been a bewildered child, and his words of
praise lifted the shadow from her face.The sky was cloudy, and a delicious feeling of autumn was in the
air--autumn that might turn to winter with a passing cloud, and the
forest was dankly gloomy and grimly silent, save from the roaring stream
which ran at times foam-white with speed.The high peaks, gray and
streaked with new-fallen snow, shone grandly, bleakly through the firs.The radiant beauty of the road from the Springs, the golden glow of four
days before was utterly gone, and yet there was exultation in this ride.A distinct pleasure, a delight of another sort, lay in thus daring the
majesty of an unknown wind-swept pass.Wayland called out: "The air feels like Thanksgiving morning, doesn't
it?""It _is_ Thanksgiving for me, and I'm going to get a grouse for dinner,"
she replied; and in less than an hour the snap of her rifle made good her
promise.After leaving the upper lake she turned to the right and followed the
course of a swift and splendid stream, which came churning through a
cheerless, mossy swamp of spruce-trees.Inexperienced as he was, Wayland
knew that this was not a well-marked trail; but his confidence in his
guide was too great to permit of any worry over the pass, and he amused
himself by watching the water-robins as they flitted from stone to stone
in the torrent, and in calculating just where he would drop a line for
trout if he had time to do so, and in recovered serenity enjoyed his
ride.Gradually he put aside his perplexities concerning the future,
permitting his mind to prefigure nothing but his duties with Landon at
Meeker's Mill.He was rather glad of the decision to send him there, for it promised
absorbing sport."I shall see how Landon and Belden work out their
problem," he said.He had no fear of Frank Meeker now."As a forest guard
with official duties to perform I can meet that young savage on other and
more nearly equal terms," he assured himself.The trail grew slippery and in places ran full of water."But there's a
bottom, somewhere," Berrie confidently declared, and pushed ahead with
resolute mien.It was noon when they rose above timber and entered upon
the wide, smooth <DW72>s of the pass.Snow filled the grass here, and the
wind, keen, cutting, unhindered, came out of the desolate west with
savage fury; but the sun occasionally shone through the clouds with vivid
splendor."It is December now," shouted Wayland, as he put on his slicker
and cowered low to his saddle."We will make it Christmas dinner," she laughed, and her glowing good
humor warmed his heart.As they rose, the view became magnificent, wintry, sparkling.The great
clouds, drifting like ancient warships heavy with armament, sent down
chill showers of hail over the frosted gold of the grassy <DW72>s; but
when the shadows passed the sunlight descended in silent cataracts
deliriously spring-like.The conies squeaked from the rocky ridges, and a
brace of eagles circling about a lone crag, as if exulting in their
sovereign mastery of the air, screamed in shrill ecstatic duo.The sheer
cliffs, on their shadowed sides, were violently purple.Everywhere the
landscape exhibited crashing contrasts of primary pigments which bit into
consciousness like the flare of a martial band.The youth would have lingered in spite of the cold; but the girl kept
steadily on, knowing well that the hardest part of their journey was
still before them, and he, though longing to ride by her side, and to
enjoy the views with her, was forced to remain in the rear in order to
hurry the reluctant pack-animals forward.They had now reached a point
twelve thousand feet above the sea, and range beyond range, to the west
and south, rose into sight like stupendous waves of a purple-green sea.To the east the park lay level as a floor and carpeted in tawny velvet.It was nearly two o'clock when they began to drop down behind the rocky
ridges of the eastern <DW72>, and soon, in the bottom of a warm and
sheltered hollow just at timber-line, Berrie drew her horse to a stand
and slipped from the saddle."We'll rest here an hour," she said, "and
cook our grouse; or are you too hungry to wait?""I can wait," he answered, dramatically."But it seems as if I had never
eaten.""Well, then, we'll save the grouse till to-morrow; but I'll make some
coffee.You bring some water while I start a fire."And so, while the tired horses cropped the russet grass, she boiled some
coffee and laid out some bread and meat, while he sat by watching her and
absorbing the beauty of the scene, the charm of the hour."It is exactly
like a warm afternoon in April," he said, "and here are some of the
spring flowers.""There now, sit by and eat," she said, with humor; and in perfectly
restored tranquillity they ate and drank, with no thought of critics or
of rivals.They were alone, and content to be so.It was deliciously sweet and restful there in that sunny hollow on the
breast of the mountain.The wind swept through the worn branches of the
dwarfed spruce with immemorial wistfulness; but these young souls heard
it only as a far-off song.Side by side on the soft Alpine clover they
rested and talked, looking away at the shining peaks, and down over the
dark-green billows of fir beneath them.Half the forest was under their
eyes at the moment, and the man said: "Is it not magnificent!It makes me
proud of my country.Just think, all this glorious spread of hill and
valley is under your father's direction.I may say under _your_
direction, for I notice he does just about what you tell him to do.""If I were a man I'd rather be
Supervisor of this forest than Congressman.""Nash says you _are_ the Supervisor.I wonder if
your father realizes how efficient you are?Does he ever sorrow over your
not being a boy?""You're a good deal like a son to him, I imagine.You can do about all
that a boy can do, anyhow--more than I could ever do.Does he realize how
much you have to do with the management of his forest?I really believe you _could_ carry on the work as well as
he.""You seem to think I'm a district forester in
disguise.""I have eyes, Miss Supervisor, and also ears--which leads me to ask: Why
don't you clean out that saloon gang?Landon is sure there's crooked work
going on at that mill--certainly that open bar is a disgraceful and
corrupting thing.""We've tried to cut out that saloon, but it can't be
done.You see, it's on a patented claim--the claim was bogus, of course,
and we've made complaint, but the matter is hung up, and that gives 'em a
chance to go on.""Well, let's not talk of that.It's too delicious an hour for any
question of business.I wish I could write
what I feel this moment.Why don't we camp here and watch the sun go down
and the moon rise?From our lofty vantage-ground the coming of dawn would
be an epic.""We mustn't think of that," she protested.The wind in
the pines, the sunshine, the conies crying from their rocks, the
butterflies on the clover--my heart aches with the beauty of it.Even that staggering walk in the rain had its
splendid quality.I couldn't see the poetry in it then; but I do now.These few days have made us comrades, haven't they--comrades of the
trail?They are like steel, and yet they are feminine.""I'm ashamed of my hands--they are so big and
rough and dingy.""They're brown, of course, and calloused--a little--but they are not big,
and they are beautifully modeled.""I am
wondering how you would look in conventional dress.""I'd look like a gawk in one of those
low-necked outfits.I'd never dare--and those tight skirts would sure
<DW36> me."You'd have to modify your stride a little; but
you'd negotiate it.You're the kind of American girl that can
go anywhere and do anything.My sisters would mortgage their share of the
golden streets for your abounding health--and so would I.""You are all right now," she smiled."You don't look or talk as you
did."He lifted a spread hand as if to clutch and hold
something."I feel it soaking into me like some magical oil.No more
moping and whining for me.I've proved that hardship is good for me.""Don't crow till you're out of the woods.It's a long ride down the hill,
and going down is harder on the tenderfoot than going up."All I need is another trip like this with
you and I shall be a master trailer."All this was very sweet to her, and though she knew they should be going,
she lingered.Childishly reckless of the sinking sun, she played with the
wild flowers at her side and listened to his voice in complete content.The hour was too beautiful to be shortened, although she
saw no reason why others equally delightful might not come to them both.He was more of the lover than he had ever been before, that she knew, and
in the light of his eyes all that was not girlish and charming melted
away.She forgot her heavy shoes, her rough hands and sun-tanned face,
and listened with wondering joy and pride to his words, which were of a
fineness such as she had never heard spoken--only books contained such
unusual and exquisite phrases.A cloud passing across the sun flung down a shadow of portentous chill
and darkness.She started to her feet with startled recollection of the
place and the hour."We _must_ be going--at once!"I
have perfect confidence in your woodcraft.Why not spend another night on
the trail?He tempted her strongly, so frank and boyish and lovable were his glances
and his words.But she was vaguely afraid of herself, and though the long
ride at the moment seemed hard and dull, the thought of her mother
waiting decided her action."Suppose I refuse--suppose I
decide to stay here?"Upon her, as he talked, a sweet hesitation fell, a dream which held more
of happiness than she had ever known."It is a long, hard ride," she
thought, "and another night on the trail will not matter."And so the
moments passed on velvet feet, and still she lingered, reluctant to break
the spell.Suddenly, into their idyllic drowse of content, so sweet, so youthful,
and so pure of heart, broke the sound of a horse's hurrying, clashing,
steel-shod feet, and looking up Berrie saw a mounted man coming down the
mountainside with furious, reckless haste.And into her face came
a look of alarm."He's mad--he's
dangerous!Leave him to me," she added, in a low, tense voice.XI

THE DEATH-GRAPPLE


There was something so sinister in the rider's disregard of stone and
tree and pace, something so menacing in the forward thrust of his body,
that Berrie was able to divine his wrath, and was smitten into
irresolution--all her hardy, boyish self-reliance swallowed up in the
weakness of the woman.She forgot the pistol at her belt, and awaited the
assault with rigid pose.As Belden neared them Norcross also perceived that the rider's face was
distorted with passion, and that his glance was not directed upon Berrie,
but upon himself, and he braced himself for the attack.Leaving his saddle with one flying leap, which the cowboy practises at
play, Belden hurled himself upon his rival with the fury of a panther.The slender youth went down before the big rancher as though struck by a
catapult; and the force of his fall against the stony earth stunned him
so that he lay beneath his enemy as helpless as a child.[Illustration: THE SLENDER YOUTH WENT DOWN BEFORE THE BIG RANCHER
AS THOUGH STRUCK BY A CATAPULT]

Belden snarled between his teeth: "I told you I'd kill you, and I will."With a
cry of pain, of anger, she flung herself on the maddened man's back.Her
hands encircled his neck like a collar of bronze.Hardened by incessant
use of the cinch and the rope, her fingers sank into the sinews of his
great throat, shutting off both blood and breath."Let go, or I'll choke
the life out of you!He raised a hand to beat her off, but she was too strong, too desperate
to be driven away.She was as blind to pain as a mother eagle, and bent
above him so closely that he could not bring the full weight of his fist
to bear.With one determined hand still clutching his throat, she ran the
fingers of her other hand into his hair and twisted his head upward with
a power which he could not resist.And so, looking into his upturned,
ferocious eyes, she repeated with remorseless fury: "_Let go_, I say!"His swollen face grew rigid, his mouth gaped, his tongue protruded, and
at last, releasing his hold on his victim, he rose, flinging Berrie off
with a final desperate effort.Up to this moment the girl had felt no fear of herself; but now she
resorted to other weapons.Snatching her pistol from its holster, she
leveled it at his forehead.she said; and something in her voice
froze him into calm.He was not a fiend; he was not a deliberate
assassin; he was only a jealous, despairing, insane lover, and as he
looked into the face he knew so well, and realized that nothing but hate
and deadly resolution lit the eyes he had so often kissed, his heart gave
way, and, dropping his head, he said: "Kill me if you want to.There was something unreal, appalling in this sudden reversion to
weakness, and Berrie could not credit his remorse."Give me your gun,"
she said.He surrendered it to her and she threw it aside; then turned to Wayland,
who was lying white and still with face upturned to the sky.With a moan
of anguish she bent above him and called upon his name.He did not stir,
and when she lifted his head to her lap his hair, streaming with blood,
stained her dress.She kissed him and called again to him, then turned
with accusing frenzy to Belden: "You've killed him!The agony, the fury of hate in her voice reached the heart of the
conquered man.He raised his head and stared at her with mingled fear and
remorse.And so across that limp body these two souls, so lately lovers,
looked into each other's eyes as though nothing but words of hate and
loathing had ever passed between them.The girl saw in him only a savage,
vengeful, bloodthirsty beast; the man confronted in her an accusing
angel."I didn't mean to kill him," he muttered.You crushed his life out with your big
hands--and now I'm going to kill you for it!"Some far-off ancestral deep of passion
called for blood revenge.She lifted the weapon with steady hand and
pointed it at his heart.His head drooped, his glance
wavered."I'd sooner die than
live--now."His words, his tone, brought back to her a vision of the man he had
seemed when she first met and admired him.Her hand fell, the woman in
her reasserted itself.A wave of weakness, of indecision, of passionate
grief overwhelmed her.His glance wandered to his horse, serenely cropping
the grass in utter disregard of this tumultuous human drama; but the
wind, less insensate than the brute, swept through the grove of dwarfed,
distorted pines with a desolate, sympathetic moan which filled the man's
heart with a new and exalted sorrow.But Berrie was now too deep in her own desolation to care what he said or
did.She kissed the cold lips of the still youth, murmuring passionately:
"I don't care to live without you--I shall go with you!"Belden's hand was on her wrist before she could raise her weapon."Don't,
for God's sake, don't do that!Again she bent to the quiet face on which the sunlight fell with mocking
splendor.It seemed all a dream till she felt once more the stain of his
blood upon her hands.Only just now he
was exulting over the warmth and beauty of the day--and now--

How beautiful he was.The conies crying from their
runways suddenly took on poignant pathos.They appeared to be grieving
with her; but the eagles spoke of revenge.A sharp cry, a note of joy sprang from her lips.I saw
his eyelids quiver--quick!The man leaped to his feet, and, running down to the pool, filled his
sombrero with icy water.He was as eager now to save his rival as he had
been mad to destroy him.But she would not
permit him to touch the body.Again, while splashing the water upon his face, the girl called upon her
love to return.The wounded man did, indeed, open his eyes, but his look was a blank,
uncomprehending stare, which plunged her back into despair.She now perceived the source of
the blood upon her arm.It came from a wound in the boy's head which had
been dashed upon a stone.The sight of this wound brought back the blaze of accusing anger to her
eyes.Then by sudden
shift she bent to the sweet face in her arms and kissed it passionately.He opened his eyes once more, quietly, and looked up into her face with a
faint, drowsy smile.He could not yet locate himself in space and time,
but he knew her and was comforted.He wondered why he should be looking
up into a sunny sky.He heard the wind and the sound of a horse cropping
grass, and the voice of the girl penetratingly sweet as that of a young
mother calling her baby back to life, and slowly his benumbed brain began
to resolve the mystery.Belden, forgotten, ignored as completely as the conies, sat with choking
throat and smarting eyes.For him the world was only dust and ashes--a
ruin which his own barbaric spirit had brought upon itself.Slowly the youth's eyes took on expression."Yes, dearest," she assured him.Then to Belden, "He knows where he is!"He turned slightly and observed the other man looking down at her with
dark and tragic glance."Hello, Belden," he said, feebly.Then noting Berrie's look, he added: "I remember."Why didn't you finish the
job?"I don't care for anybody
now you are coming back to me."Wayland wonderingly regarded the face of the girl."And you--are you
hurt?"She turned to Belden with
quick, authoritative command."Unsaddle the horses and set up the tent.We won't be able to leave here to-night."He rose with instant obedience, glad of a chance to serve her, and soon
had the tent pegged to its place and the bedding unrolled.Together they
lifted the wounded youth and laid him upon his blankets beneath the low
canvas roof which seemed heavenly helpful to Berea."Now you are safe, no matter whether it
rains or not.""It seems I'm to have my way after all.I hope I shall be able
to see the sun rise.I've sort of lost my interest in the sunset.""Now, Cliff," she said, as soon as the camp was in order and a fire
started, "I reckon you'd better ride on.I haven't any further use for
you.""Don't say that, Berrie," he pleaded."I can't leave you here alone with
a sick man.She looked at him for a long time before she replied."I shall never be
able to look at you again without hating you," she said."I shall always
remember you as you looked when you were killing that boy.So you'd
better ride on and keep a-riding.I'm going to forget all this just as
soon as I can, and it don't help me any to have you around.I never want
to see you or hear your name again.""You don't mean that, Berrie!""Yes, I do," she asserted, bitterly.All I ask of you is to say nothing about what has happened
here.If Wayland should get worse it might
go hard with you."But I'd like to do something for you before I go.I'll pile up some
wood--"

"No.And without another word of farewell she
turned away and re-entered the tent.Mounting his horse with painful slowness, as though suddenly grown old,
the reprieved assassin rode away up the mountain, his head low, his eyes
upon the ground.XII

BERRIE'S VIGIL


The situation in which Berea now found herself would have disheartened
most women of mature age, but she remained not only composed, she was
filled with an irrational delight.The nurse that is in every woman was
aroused in her, and she looked forward with joy to a night of vigil,
confident that Wayland was not seriously injured and that he would soon
be able to ride.She had no fear of the forest or of the night.Nature
held no menace now that her tent was set and her fire alight.Wayland, without really knowing anything about it, suspected that he owed
his life to her intervention, and this belief deepened the feeling of
admiration which he had hitherto felt toward her.He listened to her at
work around the fire with a deepening sense of his indebtedness to her,
and when she looked in to ask if she could do anything for him, his
throat filled with an emotion which rendered his answer difficult.As his mind cleared he became very curious to know precisely what had
taken place, but he did not feel free to ask her."She will tell me if
she wishes me to know."That she had vanquished Belden and sent him on
his way was evident, although he had not been able to hear what she had
said to him at the last.What lay between the enemy's furious onslaught
and the aid he lent in making the camp could only be surmised."I wonder
if she used her pistol?""Something like death
must have stared him in the face.""Strange how everything seems to throw me ever deeper into her debt," he
thought, a little later.But he did not quite dare put into words the
resentment which mingled with his gratitude.He hated to be put so
constantly into the position of the one protected, defended.He had put himself among people and conditions where
she was the stronger.Having ventured out of his world into hers he must
take the consequences.That she loved him with the complete passion of her powerful and simple
nature he knew, for her voice had reached through the daze of his
semi-unconsciousness with thrilling power.The touch of her lips to his,
the close clasp of her strong arms were of ever greater convincing
quality.And yet he wished the revelation had come in some other way.It was a
disconcerting reversal of the ordinary relations between hero and
heroine, and he saw no way of re-establishing the normal attitude of the
male.Entirely unaware of what was passing in the mind of her patient, Berrie
went about her duties with a cheerfulness which astonished the sufferer
in the tent.She seemed about to hum a song as she set the skillet on the
fire, but a moment later she called out, in a tone of irritation: "Here
comes Nash!""I'm glad of that," answered Wayland, although he perceived something of
her displeasure.Nash, on his way to join the Supervisor, raised a friendly greeting as he
saw the girl, and drew rein."I expected to meet you farther down the
hill," he said."Tony 'phoned that you had started."Camped down the trail a mile or so.I thought I'd better push through
to-night.He fell and struck his head
on a rock, and I had to go into camp here.""I don't think you'd better take the time.It's a long, hard ride from
here to the station.It will be deep night before you can make it--"

"Don't you think the Supervisor would want me to camp here to-night and
do what I could for you?If Norcross is badly injured you will need me."She liked Nash, and she knew he was right, and yet she was reluctant to
give up the pleasure of her lone vigil."He's not in any danger, and
we'll be able to ride on in the morning."Nash, thinking of her as Clifford Belden's promised wife, had no
suspicion of her feeling toward Norcross.Therefore he gently urged that
to go on was quite out of order."I _can't_ think of leaving you here
alone--certainly not till I see Norcross and find out how badly he is
hurt.""I reckon you're right," she said."I'll go see if he is
awake."He followed her to the door of the tent, apprehending something new and
inexplicable in her attitude.In the music of her voice as she spoke to
the sick man was the love-note of the mate."You may come in," she called
back, and Nash, stooping, entered the small tent."Hello, old man, what you been doing with yourself?"No, the hill flew up and bumped _me_."I had no share in it--I
didn't go for to do it.""Whether you did or not, you seem to have made a good job of it."Nash examined the wounded man carefully, and his skill and strength in
handling Norcross pleased Berrie, though she was jealous of the warm
friendship which seemed to exist between the men.She had always liked Nash, but she resented him now, especially as he
insisted on taking charge of the case; but she gave way finally, and went
back to her pots and pans with pensive countenance.A little later, when Nash came out to make report, she was not very
gracious in her manner."He's pretty badly hurt," he said."There's an
ugly gash in his scalp, and the shock has produced a good deal of pain
and confusion in his head; but he's going to be all right in a day or
two.For a man seeking rest and recuperation he certainly has had a tough
run of weather."Though a serious-minded, honorable forester, determined to keep sternly
in mind that he was in the presence of the daughter of his chief, and
that she was engaged to marry another, Nash was, after all, a man, and
the witchery of the hour, the charm of the girl's graceful figure,
asserted their power over him.His eyes grew tender, and his voice
eloquent in spite of himself.His words he could guard, but it was hard
to keep from his speech the song of the lover.The thought that he was to
camp in her company, to help her about the fire, to see her from moment
to moment, with full liberty to speak to her, to meet her glance, pleased
him.It was the most romantic and moving episode in his life, and though
of a rather dry and analytic temperament he had a sense of poesy.The night, black, oppressive, and silent, brought a closer bond of mutual
help and understanding between them.He built a fire of dry branches
close to the tent door, and there sat, side by side with the girl, in the
glow of embers, so close to the injured youth that they could talk
together, and as he spoke freely, yet modestly, of his experiences Berrie
found him more deeply interesting than she had hitherto believed him to
be.True, he saw things less poetically than Wayland, but he was finely
observant, and a man of studious and refined habits.She grew friendlier, and asked him about his work, and especially about
his ambitions and plans for the future.They discussed the forest and its
enemies, and he wondered at her freedom in speaking of the Mill and
saloon.He said: "Of course you know that Alec Belden is a partner in
that business, and I'm told--of course I don't know this--that Clifford
Belden is also interested."She offered no defense of young Belden, and this unconcern puzzled him.He had expected indignant protest, but she merely replied: "I don't care
who owns it.It's
just another way of robbing those poor tie-jacks.""Clifford should get out of it."His relationship to you--"

"He is not related to me.""Of course I do, but you're mistaken.We're not related that way any
longer."This silenced him for a few moments, then he said: "I'm rather glad of
that.He isn't anything like the man you thought he was--I couldn't say
these things before--but he is as greedy as Alec, only not so open about
it."All this comment, which moved the forester so deeply to utter, seemed not
to interest Berea.She sat staring at the fire with the calm brow of an
Indian.Clifford Belden had passed out of her life as completely as he
had vanished out of the landscape.She felt an immense relief at being
rid of him, and resented his being brought back even as a subject of
conversation.Wayland, listening, fancied he understood her desire, and said nothing
that might arouse Nash's curiosity.Nash, on his part, knowing that she had broken with Belden, began to
understand the tenderness, the anxious care of her face and voice, as she
bent above young Norcross.As the night deepened and the cold air stung,
he asked: "Have you plenty of blankets for a bed?""Oh yes," she answered, "but I don't intend to sleep.""I will make my bed right here at the mouth of the
tent close to the fire," she said, "and you can call me if you need me.""Why not put your bed in the tent?"I am all right outside," she protested."Put your bed inside, Miss Berrie.We can't let conventions count above
timber-line.I shall rest better if I know you are properly sheltered."And so it happened that for the third time she shared the same roof with
her lover; but the nurse was uppermost in her now.At eleven thousand
feet above the sea--with a cold drizzle of fine rain in the air--one does
not consider the course of gossip as carefully as in a village, and
Berrie slept unbrokenly till daylight.Nash was the first to arise in the dusk of dawn, and Berrie, awakened by
the crackle of his fire, soon joined him.There is no sweeter sound than
the voice of the flame at such a time, in such a place.It endows the
bleak mountainside with comfort, makes the ledge a hearthstone.It holds
the promise of savory meats and fragrant liquor, and robs the frosty air
of its terrors.Wayland, hearing their voices, called out, with feeble humor: "Will some
one please turn on the steam in my room?""Not precisely like a pugilist--well, yes, I believe I do--like the
fellow who got second money."inquired Nash, thrusting his head inside the door."Reduced to the size of a golf-ball as near as I can judge of it.I doubt
if I can wear a hat; but I'm feeling fine.Do you feel like riding down
the hill?"I'm hungry, and as soon as I am fed I'm ready to start."Berrie joined the surveyor at the fire."If you'll round up our horses, Mr.Nash, I'll rustle breakfast and we'll
get going," she said.Nash, enthralled, lingered while she twisted her hair into place, then
went out to bring in the ponies.Wayland came out a little uncertainly, but looking very well."I think I
shall discourage my friends from coming to this region for their health,"
he said, ruefully."If I were a novelist now all this would be grist for
my mill."Beneath his joking he was profoundly chagrined.He had hoped by this time
to be as sinewy, as alert as Nash, instead of which here he sat,
shivering over the fire like a sick girl, his head swollen, his blood
sluggish; but this discouragement only increased Berea's tenderness--a
tenderness which melted all his reserve."I'm not worth all your care," he said to her, with poignant glance.The sun rose clear and warm, and the fire, the coffee, put new courage
into him as well as into the others, and while the morning was yet early
and the forest chill and damp with rain, the surveyor brought up the
horses and started packing the outfit.In this Berrie again took part, doing her half of the work quite as
dextrously as Nash himself.Indeed, the forester was noticeably confused
and not quite up to his usual level of adroit ease.At last both packs were on, and as they stood together for a moment, Nash
said: "This has been a great experience--one I shall remember as long as
I live."She stirred uneasily under his frank admiration."I'm mightily obliged to
you," she replied, as heartily as she could command."Don't thank me, I'm indebted to you.There is so little in my life of
such companionship as you and Norcross give me.""You'll find it lonesome over at the station, I'm afraid," said she."But
Moore intends to put a crew of tie-cutters in over there--that will help
some.""I'm not partial to the society of tie-jacks.""If you ride hard you may find that Moore girl in camp.There was a sparkle of mischief in her glance."I'm not interested in the Moore girl," he retorted."I've seen her at the post-office once or twice; _she_ is not my kind."I'm all right now that Wayland can
ride.""I believe I'll ride back with you as far as
the camp."There was dismissal in her voice, and yet she recognized as never before
the fine qualities that were his."Please don't say anything of this to
others, and tell my father not to worry about us.He helped Norcross mount his horse, and as he put the lead rope into
Berrie's hand, he said: with much feeling: "Good luck to you.I shall
remember this night all the rest of my life.""I hate to be going to the rear," called Wayland, whose bare, bandaged
head made him look like a wounded young officer."But I guess it's better
for me to lay off for a week or two and recover my tone."And so they parted, the surveyor riding his determined way up the naked
mountainside toward the clouds, while Berrie and her ward plunged at once
into the dark and dripping forest below."If you can stand the grief,"
she said, "we'll go clear through."Wayland had his misgivings, but did not say so.She would do her part, that was certain.Several
times she was forced to dismount and blaze out a new path in order to
avoid some bog; but she sternly refused his aid."You must not get off,"
she warned; "stay where you are.They were again in that green, gloomy, and silent zone of the range,
where giant spruces grow, and springs, oozing from the rocks, trickle
over the trail.It was very beautiful, but menacing, by reason of its
apparently endless thickets cut by stony ridges.It was here she met the
two young men, Downing and Travis, bringing forward the surveying outfit,
but she paused only to say: "Push along steadily.After leaving the men, and with a knowledge that the remaining leagues of
the trail were solitary, Norcross grew fearful."The fall of a horse, an
accident to that brave girl, and we would be helpless," he thought."I
wish Nash had returned with us."Once his blood chilled with horror as he
watched his guide striking out across the marge of a grassy lake.This
meadow, as he divined, was really a carpet of sod floating above a
bottomless pool of muck, for it shook beneath her horse's feet."Come on, it's all right," she called back, cheerily."We'll soon pick up
the other trail."He wondered how she knew, for to him each hill was precisely like
another, each thicket a maze.She tried each dangerous slough first, and
thus was able to advise him which way was safest.His head throbbed with
pain and his knees were weary, but he rode on, manifesting such cheer as
he could, resolving not to complain at any cost; but his self-respect
ebbed steadily, leaving him in bitter, silent dejection.At last they came into open ground on a high ridge, and were gladdened by
the valley outspread below them, for it was still radiant with color,
though not as brilliant as before the rain.It had been dimmed, but not
darkened.And yet it seemed that a month had passed since their ecstatic
ride upward through the golden forest, and Wayland said as much while
they stood for a moment surveying the majestic park with its wall of
guardian peaks.But Berrie replied: "It seems only a few hours to me."From this point the traveling was good, and they descended rapidly,
zigzagging from side to side of a long, sweeping ridge.By noon they were
once more down amid the aspens, basking in a world of sad gold leaves and
delicious September sunshine.At one o'clock, on the bank of a clear stream, the girl halted."I reckon
we'd better camp awhile.He gratefully acquiesced in this stop, for his knees were trembling with
the strain of the stirrups; but he would not permit her to ease him down
from his saddle.Turning a wan glance upon her, he bitterly asked: "Must
I always play the weakling before you?Ride on
and leave me to rot here in the grass."You must not talk like that," she gently admonished him.I should never have ventured into this man's country.""I'm glad you did," she answered, as if she were comforting a child."For
if you hadn't I should never have known you.""That would have been no loss--to you," he bitterly responded.She unsaddled one pack-animal and spread some blankets on the grass."Lie
down and rest while I boil some coffee," she commanded; and he obeyed,
too tired to make pretension toward assisting.Lying so, feeling the magic of the sun, hearing the music of the water,
and watching the girl, he regained a serener mood, and when she came back
with his food he thanked her for it with a glance before which her eyes
fell."I don't see why you are so kind to me, I really believe you _like_
to do things for me."Her head drooped to hide her face, and he went on:
"Why do you care for me?"I don't know," she murmured.Then she added, with a flash of bravery:
"But I do."You turn from a splendid fellow like Landon to
a'skate' like me.Landon worships you--you know that--don't you?""I know--he--" she ended, vaguely distressed.He's a man of high character
and education."She made no answer to this, and he went on: "Dear girl,
I'm not worth your care--truly I'm not.I resented your engagement to
Belden, for he was a brute; but Landon is different.I've never done anything in the
world--I never shall.It will be better for you if I go--to-morrow."She took his hand and pressed it to her cheek, then, putting her arm
about his neck, drew him to her bosom and kissed him passionately."You
break my heart when you talk like that," she protested, with tears."You
mustn't say such gloomy things--I won't let you give up.You shall come
right home with me, and I will nurse you till you are well.If we had only stayed in camp at the lake daddy would have joined
us that night, and if I had not loitered on the mountain yesterday Cliff
would not have overtaken us."I will not have it go that way," he said."I've brought you only care
and unhappiness thus far.I'm an alien--my ways are not your ways.""I hate my ways, and I like yours."As they argued she felt no shame, and he voiced no resentment.She pleaded as a man
might have done, ready to prove her love, eager to restore his
self-respect, while he remained both bitter and sadly contemptuous.A cow-hand riding up the trail greeted Berrie respectfully, but a cynical
smile broke out on his lips as he passed on.She had no further concern of the valley's comment.Her
life's happiness hung on the drooping eyelashes of this wounded boy, and
to win him back to cheerful acceptance of life was her only concern."I've never had any motives," he confessed."I've always done what
pleased me at the moment--or because it was easier to do as others were
doing.Truth is, I never had any surplus
vitality, and my father never demanded anything of me.A few days ago I was interested in forestry.What's the use of my trying to live?"Part of all this despairing cry arose from weariness, and part from a
luxurious desire to be comforted, for it was sweet to feel her sympathy.He even took a morbid pleasure in the distress of her eyes and lips while
her rich voice murmured in soothing protest.She, on her part, was frightened for him, and as she thought of the long
ride still before them she wrung her hands.Instantly smitten into shame, into manlier mood, he said: "Don't worry
about me, please don't."If we can reach Miller's ranch--"

"I can ride to _your_ ranch," he declared, and rose with such new-found
resolution that she stared at him in wonder.I've relieved my
heart of its load.Wonder what that
cowboy thought of me?"His sudden reversal to cheer was a little alarming to her, but at length
she perceived that he had in truth mastered his depression, and bringing
up the horses she saddled them, and helped him to mount."If you get
tired or feel worse, tell me, and we'll go into camp," she urged as they
were about to start."You keep going till I give the sign," he replied; and his voice was so
firm and clear that her own sunny smile came back."I don't know what to
make of you," she said.XIII

THE GOSSIPS AWAKE


It was dark when they reached the village, but Wayland declared his
ability to go on, although his wounded head was throbbing with fever and
he was clinging to the pommel of his saddle; so Berrie rode on.McFarlane, hearing the horses on the bridge, was at the door and
received her daughter with wondering question, while the stable-hands,
quick to detect an injured man, hurried to lift Norcross down from his
saddle."He fell and struck his head on a stone," Berea hastily explained."Take
the horses, boys, mother and I will look out for Mr.The men obeyed her and fell back, but they were consumed with curiosity,
and their glances irritated the girl."Slip the packs at once," she
insisted.With instant sympathy her mother came to her aid in supporting the
wounded, weary youth indoors, and as he stretched out on the couch in the
sitting-room, he remarked, with a faint, ironic smile: "This beats any
bed of balsam boughs.""He's over on the Ptarmigan.I've a powerful lot to tell you, mother; but
not now; we must look after Wayland.He's nearly done up, and so am I."McFarlane winced a little at her daughter's use of Norcross's first
name, but she said nothing further at the moment, although she watched
Berrie closely while she took off Wayland's shoes and stockings and
rubbed his icy feet."Get him something hot as quick as you can!"Gradually the tremor passed out of his limbs and a delicious sense of
warmth, of safety, stole over him, and he closed his eyes in the comfort
of her presence and care."Rigorous business this life of the pioneer,"
he said, with mocking inflection."I think I prefer a place in the lumber
trust."Then, with a rush of tender remorse: "Why didn't
you tell me to stop?I didn't realize that you were so tired."I didn't know how tired I was till I got here.Gee," he said, boyishly,
"that door-knob at the back of my head is red-hot!You're good to me," he
added, humbly.She hated to have him resume that tone of self-depreciation, and,
kneeling to him, she kissed his cheek, and laid her head beside his."Nobody could be braver; but you should
have told me you were exhausted.You fooled me with your cheerful
answers."He accepted her loving praise, her clasping arms, as a part of the rescue
from the darkness and pain of the long ride, careless of what it might
bring to him in the future.He ate his toast and drank his coffee, and
permitted the women to lead him to his room, and then being alone he
crept into his bed and fell instantly asleep.Berrie and her mother went back to the sitting-room, and Mrs.McFarlane
closed the door behind them."Now tell me all about it," she said, in the
tone of one not to be denied.The story went along very smoothly till the girl came to the second night
in camp beside the lake; there her voice faltered, and the reflective
look in the mother's eyes deepened as she learned that her daughter had
shared her tent with the young man."It was the only thing to do,
mother," Berrie bravely said."It was cold and wet outside, and you know
he isn't very strong, and his teeth were chattering, he was so chilled.I
know it sounds strange down here; but up there in the woods in the storm
what I did seemed right and natural.You know what I mean, don't you?"I don't blame you--only--if others should hear of
it--"

"But they won't.No one knows of our being alone there except Tony and
father.""I don't think so--not yet.""I wish you hadn't gone on this trip.If the Beldens find out you were alone with Mr.Norcross they'll make
much of it.It will give them a chance at your father.""I don't like to tell
you, mother, but he didn't fall, Cliff jumped him and tried to kill
him.""I don't know how he found out we were on the
trail.I suppose the old lady 'phoned him.Anyhow, while we were camped
for noon yesterday"--her face flamed again at thought of that tender,
beautiful moment when they were resting on the grass--"while we were at
our lunch he came tearing down the hill on that big bay horse of his and
took a flying jump at Wayland.As Wayland went down he struck his head on
a stone.I thought he was dead, and I was paralyzed for a second.Then I
flew at Cliff and just about choked the life out of him.I'd have ended
him right there if he hadn't let go."McFarlane, looking upon her daughter in amazement, saw on her face
the shadow of the deadly rage which had burned in her heart as she
clenched young Belden's throat."And when he realized what
he'd done--_he_ thought Wayland was dead--he began to weaken.Then I took
my gun and was all for putting an end to him right there, when I saw
Wayland's eyelids move.After that I didn't care what became of Cliff.I
told him to ride on and keep a-ridin', and I reckon he's clear out of the
state by this time.If he ever shows up I'll put him where he'll have all
night to be sorry in."Of course Wayland couldn't ride, he was so dizzy
and kind o' confused, and so I went into camp right there at timber-line.Along about sunset Nash came riding up from this side, and insisted on
staying to help me--so I let him.""Nash is not the kind that
tattles."And this morning I saddled and came down.""Yes, daddy was waiting for him, so I sent him along.""It's all sad business," groaned Mrs.McFarlane, "and I can see you're
keeping something back.How did Cliff happen to know just where you were?For the first time Berrie showed signs of weakness and distress."Why,
you see, Alec Belden and Mr.Moore were over there to look at some
timber, and old Marm Belden and that Moore girl went along.I suppose
they sent word to Cliff, and I presume that Moore girl put him on our
trail.Leastwise that's the way I figure it out.That's the worst of the
whole business."Belden's
tongue is hung in the middle and loose at both ends--and that Moore girl
is spiteful mean."She could not keep the contempt out of her voice."She
saw us start off, and she is sure to follow it up and find out what
happened on the way home; even if they don't see Cliff they'll _talk_.""Oh, I _wish_ you hadn't gone!""It can't be helped now, and it hasn't done me any real harm.It's all in
the day's work, anyhow.I've always gone with daddy before, and this trip
isn't going to spoil me.The boys all know me, and they will treat me
fair."Norcross is an outsider--a city man.They will all think
evil of him on that account.""I know; that's what troubles me.No one will know how fine and
considerate he was.Mother, I've never known any one like him.He's taught me to see things I never saw before.Everything
interests him--the birds, the clouds, the voices in the fire.I never was
so happy in my life as I was during those first two days, and that night
in camp before he began to worry--it was just wonderful."Words failed
her, but her shining face and the forward straining pose of her body
enlightened the mother."I don't care what people say of me if only they
will be just to him.They've _got_ to treat him right," she added,
firmly."Did he speak to you--are you engaged?""Not really engaged, mother; but he told me how much he
liked me--and--it's all right, mother, I _know_ it is.I'm not fine
enough for him, but I'm going to try to change my ways so he won't be
ashamed of me.""He surely is a fine young fellow, and can
be trusted to do the right thing.Well, we might as well go to bed.We
can't settle anything till your father gets home," she said.Wayland rose next morning free from dizziness and almost free from pain,
and when he came out of his room his expression was cheerful."I feel as
if I'd slept a week, and I'm hungry.I don't know why I should be, but I
am."McFarlane met him with something very intimate, something almost
maternal in her look; but her words were as few and as restrained as
ever.He divined that she had been talking with Berrie, and that a fairly
clear understanding of the situation had been reached.That this
understanding involved him closely he was aware; but nothing in his
manner acknowledged it.She did not ask any questions, believing that sooner or later the whole
story must come out.Belden knew that
Berrie had started back on Thursday with young Norcross made it easy for
the villagers to discover that she had not reached the ranch till
Saturday."What could Joe have been thinking of to allow them to go?"Nash's presence in the camp must be made known; but then there
is Clifford's assault upon Mr.Norcross, can that be kept secret, too?"And so while the young people chatted, the troubled mother waited in
fear, knowing that in a day or two the countryside would be aflame with
accusation.In a landscape like this, as she well knew, nothing moves unobserved.The
native--man or woman--is able to perceive and name objects scarcely
discernible to the eye of the alien.A minute speck is discovered on the
hillside."Hello, there's Jim Sanders on his roan," says one, or "Here
comes Kit Jenkins with her flea-bit gray.I wonder who's on the bay
alongside of her," remarks another, and each of these observations is
taken quite as a matter of course.With a wide and empty field of vision,
and with trained, unspoiled optic nerves, the plainsman is marvelously
penetrating of glance.McFarlane was perfectly certain that
not one but several of her neighbors had seen and recognized Berrie and
young Norcross as they came down the hill.In a day or two every man
would know just where they camped, and what had taken place in camp.Belden would not rest till she had ferreted out every crook and turn of
that trail, and her speech was quite as coarse as that of any of her male
associates.Easy-going with regard to many things, these citizens were abnormally
alive to all matters relating to courtship, and popular as she believed
Berrie to be, Mrs.McFarlane could not hope that her daughter would be
spared--especially by the Beldens, who would naturally feel that Clifford
had been cheated."Well, nothing can be done till Joe
returns," she repeated.A long day's rest, a second night's sleep, set Wayland on his feet."Barring the hickory-nut on the back of my
head," he explained, "I'm feeling fine, almost ready for another
expedition.Berrie, though equally gay, was not so sure of his ability to return to
work."I reckon you'd better go easy till daddy gets back; but if you
feel like it we'll ride up to the post-office this afternoon.""I want to start right in to learn to throw that hitch, and I'm going to
practise with an ax till I can strike twice in the same place.This trip
was an eye-opener.Great man I'd be in a windfall--wouldn't I?"He was persuaded to remain very quiet for another day, and part of it was
spent in conversation with Mrs.McFarlane--whom he liked very much--and
an hour or more in writing a long letter wherein he announced to his
father his intention of going into the Forest Service."I've got to build
up a constitution," he said, "and I don't know of a better place to do it
in.Besides, I'm beginning to be interested in the scheme.I'm living in his house at the present time, and I'm feeling
contented and happy, so don't worry about me."He was indeed quite comfortable, save when he realized that Mrs.McFarlane was taking altogether too much for granted in their
relationship.It was delightful to be so watched over, so waited upon, so
instructed.he continued to ask
himself--and still that wall of reserve troubled and saddened Berrie.They expected McFarlane that night, and waited supper for him, but he did
not come, and so they ate without him, and afterward Wayland helped
Berrie do up the dishes while the mother bent above her sewing by the
kitchen lamp.There was something very sweet and gentle about Mrs.McFarlane, and the
exile took almost as much pleasure in talking with her as with her
daughter.He led her to tell of her early experiences in the valley, and
of the strange types of men and women with whom she had crossed the
range."Some of them are here yet," she said."In fact the most violent of all
the opponents to the Service are these old adventurers.I don't think
they deserve to be called pioneers.They never did any work in clearing
the land or in building homes.Some of them, who own big herds of cattle,
still live in dug-outs.McFarlane for going into the
Service--called him a traitor.Old Jake Proudfoot was especially
furious--"

"You should see where old Jake lives," interrupted Berrie."He sleeps on
the floor in one corner of his cabin, and never changes his shirt."Daddy declares if they were to scrape Jake
they'd find at least five layers of shirts.His wife left him fifteen
years ago, couldn't stand his habits, and he's got worse ever since."Of course," her mother explained, "those who oppose the Supervisor
aren't all like Jake; but it makes me angry to have the papers all
quoting Jake as 'one of the leading ranchers of the valley.'"She could not bring herself to take up the most vital subject of all--the
question of her daughter's future."I'll wait till father gets home," she
decided.On the fourth morning the 'phone rang, and the squawking voice of Mrs."I wanted to know if Berrie and her feller got
home all right?""Last I see of Cliff he was hot on their
trail--looked like he expected to take a hand in that expedition."I don't hear very well--where are you?""I'm at the Scott ranch--we're coming round 'the horn' to-day."Say, Cliff was mad as a hornet when he
started.I'd like to know what happened--"

Mrs.The old woman's nasty chuckle was
intolerable; but in silencing the 'phone Mrs.McFarlane was perfectly
aware that she was not silencing the gossip; on the contrary, she was
certain that the Beldens would leave a trail of poisonous comment from
the Ptarmigan to Bear Tooth.Berrie wanted to know who was speaking, and Mrs.Belden wanted to know if you got through all right.""She said something else, something to heat you up," persisted the girl,
who perceived her mother's agitation."What did she say--something about
me--and Cliff?"The mother did not answer, for Wayland entered the room at the moment;
but Berrie knew that traducers were already busy with her affairs."I
don't care anything about old lady Belden," she said, later; "but I hate
to have that Moore girl telling lies about me."As for Wayland, the nights in the camp by the lake, and, indeed, all the
experiences of his trip in the high places were becoming each moment more
remote, more unreal.Camp life at timber-line did not seem to him subject
to ordinary conventional laws of human conduct, and the fact that he and
Berrie had shared the same tent under the stress of cold and snow, now
seemed so far away as to be only a complication in a splendid mountain
drama.Surely no blame could attach to the frank and generous girl, even
though the jealous assault of Cliff Belden should throw the valley into a
fever of chatter."Furthermore, I don't believe he will be in haste to
speak of his share in the play," he added.It was almost noon of the fourth day when the Supervisor called up to say
that he was at the office, and would reach the ranch at six o'clock."I wish you would come home at once," his wife argued; and something in
her voice convinced him that he was more needed at home, than in the
town.Hold the fort an hour and I'll be there."McFarlane met him at the hitching-bar, and it required but a glance
for him to read in her face a troubled state of mind."This has been a disastrous trip for Berrie," she said, after one of the
hands had relieved the Supervisor of his horse.Belden is filling the valley with the
story of Berrie's stay in camp with Mr.The horses had to
be followed, and that youngster couldn't do it--and, besides, I expected
to get back that night.Nobody but an old snoop like Seth Belden would
think evil of our girl.And, besides, Norcross is a man to be trusted.""Of course he is, but the Beldens are ready to think evil of any one
connected with us.And Cliff's assault on Wayland--"

He looked up quickly."Yes, he overtook them on the trail, and would have killed Norcross if
Berrie hadn't interfered."Nash didn't say anything about any assault."Berrie told him that Norcross fell from his horse.""I saw Cliff leave camp, but I didn't think
anything of it.Belden filled him with distrust of Berrie.He was already
jealous, and when he came up with them and found them lunching together,
he lost his head and rushed at Wayland like a wild beast.Of course he
couldn't stand against a big man like Cliff, and his head struck on a
stone; and if Berrie hadn't throttled the brute he would have murdered
the poor boy right there before her eyes."I didn't think he'd do
that."These domestic matters at once threw
his work as forester into the region of vague and unimportant
abstractions.He began to understand the danger into which Berea had
fallen, and step by step he took up the trails which had brought them all
to this pass.He fixed another penetrating look upon her face, and his voice was vibrant
with anxiety as he said: "You don't think there's anything--wrong?""No, nothing wrong; but she's profoundly in love with him.I never have
seen her so wrapped up in any one.It scares
me to see it, for I've studied him closely and I can't believe he feels
the same toward her.I don't know
what to do or say.I fear she is in for a period of great unhappiness."She was at the beginning of tears, and he sought to comfort her."Don't
worry, honey, she's got too much horse sense to do anything foolish.I suppose it's his being so different from the other boys
that catches her.We've always been good chums--let me talk with her.The return of the crew from the corral cut short this conference, and
when McFarlane went in Berrie greeted him with such frank and joyous
expression that all his fears vanished.I didn't want to take any chances on getting mired.It's still raining up there," he answered, then turned to Wayland:
"Here's your mail, Norcross, a whole hatful of it--and one telegram in
the bunch.Wayland took the bundle of letters and retired to his room, glad to
escape the persistent stare of the cow-hands.The despatch was from his
father, and was curt and specific as a command: "Shall be in Denver on
the 23d, meet me at the Palmer House.Come
prepared to join me on the trip."With the letters unopened in his lap he sat in silent thought, profoundly
troubled by the instant decision which this message demanded of him.At
first glance nothing was simpler than to pack up and go.He was only a
tourist in the valley with no intention of staying; but there was Berea!To go meant a violent end of their pleasant romance.To think of flight
saddened him, and yet his better judgment was clearly on the side of
going."Much as I like her, much as I admire her, I cannot marry her.The
simplest way is to frankly tell her so and go.It seems cowardly, but in
the end she will be happier."His letters carried him back into his own world.One was from Will
Halliday, who was going with Professor Holsman on an exploring trip up
the Nile.Holsman has promised to take you on."Another classmate wrote to know if he did not want to go into a land deal
on the Gulf of Mexico.A girl asked: "Are you to be in New York this
winter?I've decided to go into this Suffrage Movement."And so,
one by one, the threads which bound him to Eastern city life re-spun
their filaments.After all, this Colorado outing, even though it should
last two years, would only be a vacation--his real life was in the cities
of the East.Charming as Berea was, potent as she seemed, she was after
all a fixed part of the mountain land, and not to be taken from it.At
the moment marriage with her appeared absurd.A knock at his door and the Supervisor's voice gave him a keen shock."Come in," he called, springing to his feet with a thrill of dread, of
alarm.McFarlane entered slowly and shut the door behind him.His manner was
serious, and his voice gravely gentle as he said: "I hope that telegram
does not call you away?""It is from my father, asking me to meet him in Denver," answered
Norcross, with faltering breath.The older man took a seat with quiet dignity."Seems like a mighty fine
chance, don't it?When do you plan
for to pull out?"Wayland was not deceived by the Supervisor's casual tone; there was
something ominously calm in his manner, something which expressed an
almost dangerous interest in the subject."I haven't decided to go at all.I'm still dazed by the suddenness of it.I didn't know my father was planning this trip."Well, before you decide to go I'd like to have a little talk with
you.My daughter has told me part of what happened to you on the trail.I
want to know _all_ of it.You're young, but you've been out in the world,
and you know what people can say about you and my girl."His voice became
level and menacing, as he added: "And I don't intend to have her put in
wrong on account of you."No one will dare to criticize her for what she could
not prevent.""You don't know the Beldens.My girl's character will be on trial in
every house in the county to-morrow.The Belden side of it will appear in
the city papers.Berrie will be made an
issue by my enemies.exclaimed Norcross, in sudden realization of the gravity of
the case."Moore's gang will seize upon it and work it hard," McFarlane went on,
with calm insistence."They want to bring the district forester down on
me.This is a fine chance to badger me.They will make a great deal of my
putting you on the roll.Our little camping trip is likely to prove a
serious matter to us all.""Surely you don't consider me at fault?"Worried as he was, the father was just."No, you're not to blame--no one
is to blame.It all dates back to the horses quitting camp; but you've
got to stand pat now--for Berrie's sake."Tell me
what to do, and I will do it."McFarlane was staggered, but he answered: "You can at least stay on the
ground and help fight.I'll stay, and I'll make any statement you see fit.I'll
do anything that will protect Berrie."McFarlane again looked him squarely in the eyes."Is there a--an
agreement between you?""Nothing formal--that is--I mean I admire her, and I told her--" He
stopped, feeling himself on the verge of the irrevocable."She's a
splendid girl," he went on."I like her exceedingly, but I've known her
only a few weeks.""Girls are flighty critters," he said, sadly."I
don't know why she's taken to you so terrible strong; but she has.She
don't seem to care what people say so long as they do not blame you; but
if you should pull out you might just as well cut her heart to pieces--"
His voice broke, and it was a long time before he could finish."You're
not at fault, I know that, but if you _can_ stay on a little while and
make it an ounce or two easier for her and for her mother, I wish you'd
do it."In the grip of McFarlane's hand was something
warm and tender."I'm terribly obliged," he said; "but we mustn't let her suspect
for a minute that we've been discussing her.She hates being pitied or
helped.""She shall not experience a moment's uneasiness that I can prevent,"
replied the youth; and at the moment he meant it.She read in her father's face a
subtle change of line which she related to something Wayland had said."Did he tell you what was in the telegram?"Yes, he said it was from his father.""He's on his way to California and wants Wayland to go with him; but
Wayland says he's not going."A pang shot through Berrie's heart."He mustn't go--he isn't able to go,"
she exclaimed, and her pain, her fear, came out in her sharpened,
constricted tone."I won't let him go--till he's well.""He'll have to go, honey, if his father
needs him."She rose, and, going to his door, decisively
knocked.she demanded, rather than asked, before her
mother could protest.Wayland opened the door, and she entered, leaving her parents facing each
other in mute helplessness.McFarlane turned toward her husband with a face of despair."She's
ours no longer, Joe.You cut loose from your parents and came to me in just the same
way.Our daughter's a grown woman, and must have her own life.All we can
do is to defend her against the coyotes who are busy with her name.""But what of _him_, Joe; he don't care for her as she does for him--can't
you see that?""He'll do the right thing, mother; he told me he would.He knows how much
depends on his staying here now, and he intends to do it.""But in the end, Joe, after this scandal is lived down, can he--will
he--marry her?And if he marries her can they live together and be happy?He can't content himself here, and she
can't fit in where he belongs.Wouldn't it
be better for her to suffer for a little while now than to make a mistake
that may last a lifetime?""Mebbe it would, mother, but the decision is not ours.She's too strong
for us to control.She's of age, and if she comes to a full understanding
of the situation, she can decide the question a whole lot better than
either of us.""In some ways she's bigger and stronger than
both of us.Sometimes I wish she were not so self-reliant.""Well, that's the way life is, sometimes, and I reckon there's nothin'
left for you an' me but to draw closer together and try to fill up the
empty place she's going to leave between us."XIV

THE SUMMONS


When Wayland caught the startled look on Berrie's face he knew that she
had learned from her father the contents of his telegram, and that she
would require an explanation.At least, I must go down to Denver to see my father."And will you tell him about our trip?"she pursued, with unflinching
directness.He gave her a chair, and took a seat himself before replying."Yes, I
shall tell him all about it, and about you and your father and mother.He
shall know how kind you've all been to me."He said this bravely, and at the moment he meant it; but as his father's
big, impassive face and cold, keen eyes came back to him his courage
sank, and in spite of his firm resolution some part of his secret anxiety
communicated itself to the girl, who asked many questions, with intent to
find out more particularly what kind of man the elder Norcross was.Wayland's replies did not entirely reassure her.He admitted that his
father was harsh and domineering in character, and that he was ambitious
to have his son take up and carry forward his work."He was willing
enough to have me go to college till he found I was specializing on wrong
lines.Then I had to fight in order to keep my place.He's glad I'm out
here, for he thinks I'm regaining my strength.But just as soon as I'm
well enough he expects me to go to Chicago and take charge of the Western
office.Of course, I don't want to do that.I'd rather work out some
problem in chemistry that interests me; but I may have to give in, for a
time at least.""Will your mother and sisters be with your father?"You couldn't get any one of them west of the Hudson River
with a log-chain.My sisters were both born in Michigan, but they want to
forget it--they pretend they have forgotten it."I suppose they think we're all 'Injuns' out here?""Oh no, not so bad as that; but they wouldn't comprehend anything about
you except your muscle.They'd worship your
splendid health, just as I do.It's pitiful the way they both try to put
on weight.They're always testing some new food, some new tonic--they'll
do anything except exercise regularly and go to bed at ten o'clock."All that he said of his family deepened her dismay.Their interests were
so alien to her own."I'm afraid to have you go even for a day," she admitted, with simple
honesty, which moved him deeply."I don't know what I should do if you
went away.Her face was pitiful, and he put his arm about her neck as if she were a
child.You must go on with your life just as if I'd
never been.Think of your father's job--of the forest and the ranch."I never want to go
into the high country again, and I don't want you to go, either."That is only a mood," he said, confidently.He could not divine, and she could not tell him, how poignantly she had
sensed the menace of the cold and darkness during his illness.For the
first time in her life she had realized to the full the unrelenting
enmity of the clouds, the wind, the night; and during that interminable
ride toward home, when she saw him bending lower and lower over his
saddle-bow, her allegiance to the trail, her devotion to the stirrup was
broken.His weariness and pain had changed the universe for her.Never
again would she look upon the range with the eyes of the care-free girl.The other, the civilized, the domestic, side of her was now dominant.A
new desire, a bigger aspiration, had taken possession of her.Little by little he realized this change in her, and was touched with the
wonder of it.He had never had any great self-love either as man or
scholar, and the thought of this fine, self-sufficient womanly soul
centering all its interests on him was humbling.Each moment his
responsibility deepened, and he heard her voice but dimly as she went
on."Of course we are not rich; but we are not poor, and my mother's family
is one of the oldest in Kentucky."She uttered this with a touch of her
mother's quiet dignity."So far as my father is concerned, family don't count, and neither does
money.But he confidently expects me to take up his business in Chicago,
and I suppose it is my duty to do so.If he finds me looking fit he may
order me into the ranks at once.""I'll go there--I'll do anything you want me to do," she urged."You can
tell your father that I'll help you in the office.I'm ready
to use a typewriter--anything."He was silent in the face of her naive expression of self-sacrificing
love, and after a moment she added, hesitatingly: "I wish I could meet
your father.Perhaps he'd come up here if you asked him to do so?"I don't
want to go to town.I just believe I'll wire him that I'm laid up here
and can't come."Then a shade of new trouble came over his face.How
would the stern, methodical old business man regard this slovenly ranch
and its primitive ways?"You're afraid to have him come," she said, with the same disconcerting
penetration which had marked every moment of her interview thus far."You're afraid he wouldn't like me?"With almost equal frankness he replied: "No.I think he'd like _you_, but
this town and the people up here would gall him.Then he's got a vicious slant against all this conservation
business--calls it tommy-rot.He and your father might lock horns first
crack out of the box.A knock at the door interrupted him, and Mrs.McFarlane's voice, filled
with new excitement, called out: "Berrie, the District office is on the
wire."Berrie opened the door and confronted her mother, who said: "Mr.Evingham
'phones that the afternoon papers contain an account of a fight at Coal
City between Settle and one of Alec Belden's men, and that the District
Forester is coming down to investigate it.""Let him come," answered Berrie, defiantly.McFarlane, with the receiver to his ear, was saying: "Don't know a thing
about it, Mr.Settle was at the station when I left.I didn't
know he was going down to Coal City.My daughter
was never engaged to Alec Belden.Alec Belden is the older of the
brothers, and is married.If you come down
I'll explain fully."He hung up the receiver and slowly turned toward his wife and daughter."This sure is our day of trouble," he said, with dejected countenance."Why, it seems that after I left yesterday Settle rode down the valley
with Belden's outfit, and they all got to drinking, ending in a row, and
Tony beat one of Belden's men almost to death.The sheriff has gone over
to get Tony, and the Beldens declare they're going to railroad him.That
means we'll all be brought into it.Belden has seized the moment to
prefer charges against me for keeping Settle in the service and for
putting a non-resident on the roll as guard.The whelp will dig up
everything he can to queer me with the office.All that kept him from
doing it before was Cliff's interest in you.""He can't make any of his charges stick," declared Berrie.Norcross will both be called as witnesses, for it seems that
Tony was defending your name.The papers call it 'a fight for a girl.'They can't make me do that, can they?"It is a shame to have you mixed up in
such a trial.""I shall not run away and leave you and the Supervisor to bear all the
burden of this fight."He anticipated in imagination--as they all did--some of the consequences
of this trial.The entire story of the camping trip would be dragged in,
distorted into a scandal, and flashed over the country as a disgraceful
episode.The country would ring with laughter and coarse jest.Berrie's
testimony would be a feast for court-room loafers."There's only one thing to do," said McFarlane, after a few moments of
thought.McFarlane must get out of here before
you are subpoenaed.""And leave you to fight it out alone?""I shall do
nothing of the kind."That won't do," retorted McFarlane, quickly.I will not have you dragged
into this muck-hole.We've got to think quick and act quick.There won't
be any delay about their side of the game.I don't think they'll do
anything to-day; but you've got to fade out of the valley.You all get
ready and I'll have one of the boys hook up the surrey as if for a little
drive, and you can pull out over the old stage-road to Flume and catch
the narrow-gage morning train for Denver.You've been wanting for some
time to go down the line."We won't leave you to inherit all this trouble.The more I consider this thing, the more worrisome it gets.If he does I'll have him arrested for trying to kill Wayland,"
retorted Berrie.You are all going to cross the
range.You can start out as if for a little turn round the valley, and
just naturally keep going.It can't do any harm, and it may save a nasty
time in court.""One would think we were a lot of criminals," remarked Wayland."That's the way you'll be treated," retorted McFarlane."Belden has
retained old Whitby, the foulest old brute in the business, and he'll
bring you all into it if he can.""But running away from it will not prevent talk," argued his wife."Not entirely; but talk and testimony are two different things.Suppose
they call daughter to the stand?Do you want her cross-examined as to
what basis there was for this gossip?They know something of Cliff's
being let out, and that will inflame them.He may be at the mill this
minute.""I guess you're right," said Norcross, sadly."Our delightful excursion
into the forest has led us into a predicament from which there is only
one way of escape, and that is flight."Back of all this talk, this argument, there remained still unanswered the
most vital, most important question: "Shall I speak of marriage at this
time?Would it be a source of comfort to them as well as a joy to her?"At the moment he was ready to speak, for he felt himself to be the direct
cause of all their embarrassment.But closer thought made it clear that a
hasty ceremony would only be considered a cloak to cover something
illicit."I'll leave it to the future," he decided.McFarlane was again called to the telephone.Landon, with characteristic
brevity, conveyed to him the fact that Mrs.Belden was at home and busily
'phoning scandalous stories about the country."If you don't stop her
she's going to poison every ear in the valley," ended the ranger."You'd think they'd all know my daughter well enough not to believe
anything Mrs.Belden says," responded McFarlane, bitterly."All the boys are ready to do what Tony did.But nobody can stop this old
fool's mouth but you.Cliff has disappeared, and that adds to the
excitement.""Thank the boys for me," said McFarlane, "and tell them not to fight.As McFarlane went out to order the horses hooked up, Wayland followed him
as far as the bars."I'm conscience-smitten over this thing, Supervisor,
for I am aware that I am the cause of all your trouble.""Don't let that worry you," responded the older man."The most appalling thing to me is the fact that not even your daughter's
popularity can neutralize the gossip of a woman like Mrs.My
being an outsider counts against Berrie, and I'm ready to do
anything--anything," he repeated, earnestly.McFarlane, and I'm ready to marry her at once if you think best.She's a
noble girl, and I cannot bear to be the cause of her calumniation."There was mist in the Supervisor's eyes as he turned them on the young
man."I'm right glad to hear you say that, my boy."He reached out his
hand, and Wayland took it."I knew you'd say the word when the time came.I didn't know how strongly she felt toward you till to-day.I knew she
liked you, of course, for she said so, but I didn't know that she had
plum set her heart on you.I didn't expect her to marry a city man;
but--I like you and--well, she's the doctor!Don't you be afraid of her not meeting all comers."He went on after a
pause, "She's never seen much of city life, but she'll hold her own
anywhere, you can gamble on that.""She has wonderful adaptability, I know," answered Wayland, slowly."But
I don't like to take her away from here--from you.""If you hadn't come she would have married Cliff--and what kind of a life
would she have led with him?""I knew Cliff was
rough, but I couldn't convince her that he was cheap.I live only for her
happiness, my boy, and, though I know you will take her away from me, I
believe you can make her happy, and so--I give her over to you.As to
time and place, arrange that--with--her mother."He turned and walked
away, unable to utter another word.Wayland's throat was aching also, and he went back into the house with a
sense of responsibility which exalted him into sturdier manhood.Berea met him in a pretty gown, a dress he had never seen her wear, a
costume which transformed her into something entirely feminine.She seemed to have put away the self-reliant manner of the trail, and in
its stead presented the lambent gaze, the tremulous lips of the bride.As
he looked at her thus transfigured his heart cast out its hesitancy and
he entered upon his new adventure without further question or regret.XV

A MATTER OF MILLINERY


It was three o'clock of a fine, clear, golden afternoon as they said
good-by to McFarlane and started eastward, as if for a little drive.Berrie held the reins in spite of Wayland's protestations."These
bronchos are only about half busted," she said.Therefore he submitted, well knowing that
she was entirely competent and fully informed.McFarlane, while looking back at her husband, sadly exclaimed: "I
feel like a coward running away like this.""Forget it, mother," commanded her daughter, cheerily."Just imagine
we're off for a short vacation.So long as we _must_ go, let's go whooping.Her voice was gay, her eyes shining, and Wayland saw her as she had been
that first day in the coach--the care-free, laughing girl.The trouble
they were fleeing from was less real to her than the happiness toward
which she rode.Her hand on the reins, her foot on the brake, brought back her
confidence; but Wayland did not feel so sure of his part in the
adventure.She seemed so unalterably a part of this life, so fitted to
this landscape, that the thought of transplanting her to the East brought
uneasiness and question.Could such a creature of the open air be content
with the walls of a city?For several miles the road ran over the level floor of the valley, and
she urged the team to full speed."I don't want to meet anybody if I can
help it.Once we reach the old stage route the chances of being scouted
are few.Nobody uses that road since the broad-gauge reached Cragg's."McFarlane could not rid herself of the resentment with which she
suffered this enforced departure; but she had small opportunity to
protest, for the wagon bumped and clattered over the stony stretches with
a motion which confused as well as silenced her.It was all so
humiliating, so unlike the position which she had imagined herself to
have attained in the eyes of her neighbors.Furthermore, she was going
away without a trunk, with only one small bag for herself and
Berrie--running away like a criminal from an intangible foe.However, she
was somewhat comforted by the gaiety of the young people before her.They
were indeed jocund as jaybirds.With the resiliency of youth they had
accepted the situation, and were making the best of it."Here comes somebody," called Berrie, pulling her ponies to a walk.She was chuckling as if it were all a
good joke.I'm
going to pass him on the jump."Wayland, who was riding with his hat in his hand because he could not
make it cover his bump, held it up as if to keep the wind from his face,
and so defeated the round-eyed, owl-like stare of the inquisitive
rancher, who brought his team to a full stop in order to peer after them,
muttering in a stupor of resentment and surprise."He'll worry himself sick over us," predicted Berrie."He'll wonder where
we're going and what was under that blanket till the end of summer.He is
as curious as a fool hen."A few minutes more and they were at the fork in the way, and, leaving the
trail to Cragg's, the girl pulled into the grass-grown, less-traveled
trail to the south, which entered the timber at this point and began to
climb with steady grade.Letting the reins fall slack, she turned to her
mother with reassuring words.We won't meet
anybody on this road except possibly a mover's outfit.We're in the
forest again," she added.For two hours they crawled slowly upward, with a roaring stream on one
side and the pine-covered <DW72>s on the other.Jays and camp-birds called
from the trees.Water-robins fluttered from rock to rock in the foaming
flood.Squirrels and minute chipmunks raced across the fallen tree-trunks
or clattered from great boulders, and in the peace and order and beauty
of the forest they all recovered a serener outlook on the noisome tumult
they were leaving behind them.Invisible as well as inaudible, the
serpent of slander lost its terror.Once, as they paused to rest the horses, Wayland said: "It is hard to
realize that down in that ethereal valley people like old Jake and Mrs.McFarlane to admit that it might all turn out a blessing
in disguise.McFarlane may resign and move to Denver, as I've long
wanted him to do.""I wish he would," exclaimed Berrie, fervently."It's time you had a
rest.Daddy will hate to quit under fire, but he'd better do it."Peak by peak the Bear Tooth Range rose behind them, while before them the
smooth, grassy <DW72>s of the pass told that they were nearing
timber-line.The air was chill, the sun was hidden by old Solidor, and
the stream had diminished to a silent rill winding among sear grass and
yellowed willows.The
southern boundary of the forest was in sight.At last the topmost looming crags of the Continental Divide cut the
sky-line, and then in the smooth hollow between two rounded grassy
summits Berrie halted, and they all silently contemplated the two worlds.To the west and north lay an endless spread of mountains, wave on wave,
snow-lined, savage, sullen in the dying light; while to the east and
southeast the foot-hills faded into the plain, whose dim cities,
insubstantial as flecks in a veil of violet mist, were hardly
distinguishable without the aid of glasses.To the girl there was something splendid, something heroical in that
majestic, menacing landscape to the west.In one of its folds she had
begun her life.In another she had grown to womanhood and self-confident
power.The rough men, the coarse, ungainly women of that land seemed less
hateful now that she was leaving them, perhaps forever, and a confused
memory of the many splendid dawns and purple sunsets she had loved filled
her thought.Wayland, divining some part of what was moving in her mind, cheerily
remarked, "Yes, it's a splendid place for a summer vacation, but a stern
place in winter-time, and for a lifelong residence it is not inspiring."McFarlane agreed with him in this estimate."It _is_ terribly
lonesome in there at times.I'm ready for the
comforts of civilization."Berrie turned in her seat, and was about to take up the reins when
Wayland asserted himself.She looked at him with questioning, smiling glance.It's
all the way down-hill--and steep?""If I can't I'll ask your aid.I'm old enough to remember the family
carriage.I've even driven a four-in-hand."She surrendered her seat doubtfully, and smiled to see him take up the
reins as if he were starting a four-horse coach.He proved adequate and
careful, and she was proud of him as, with foot on the brake and the
bronchos well in hand, he swung down the long looping road to the
railway.She was pleased, too, by his care of the weary animals, easing
them down the steepest <DW72>s and sending them along on the comparatively
level spots.Their descent was rapid, but it was long after dark before they reached
Flume, which lay up the valley to the right.It was a poor little
decaying mining-town set against the hillside, and had but one hotel, a
sun-warped and sagging pine building just above the station."Not much like the Profile House," said Wayland, as he drew up to the
porch."There isn't any," Berrie assured him."Well, now," he went on, "I am in command of this expedition.When it comes to hotels, railways, and the like o'
that, I'm head ranger."McFarlane, tired, hungry, and a little dismayed, accepted his
control gladly; but Berrie could not at once slip aside her
responsibility."Tell the hostler--"

"Not a word!"commanded Norcross; and the girl with a smile submitted to
his guidance, and thereafter his efficiency, his self-possession, his
tact delighted her.He persuaded the sullen landlady to get them supper.He secured the best rooms in the house, and arranged for the care of the
team, and when they were all seated around the dim, fly-specked oil-lamp
at the end of the crumby dining-room table he discovered such a gay and
confident mien that the women looked at each other in surprise.In drawing off her buckskin
driving-gloves she had put away the cowgirl, and was silent, a little sad
even, in the midst of her enjoyment of his dictatorship.And when he
said, "If my father reaches Denver in time I want you to meet him," she
looked the dismay she felt."I'll do it--but I'm scared of him."I'll see him first and draw his fire."We can't
meet your father as we are."I'll go with you if you'll let me.I'm a great little
shopper.I have infallible taste, so my sisters say.If it's a case of
buying new hats, for instance, I'm the final authority with them."This
amused Berrie, but her mother took it seriously."Of course, I'm anxious to have my daughter make the best possible
impression."We get in, I find, about noon.We'll go
straight to the biggest shop in town.If we work with speed we'll be able
to lunch with my father.He'll be at the Palmer House at one."Berrie said nothing, either in acceptance or rejection of his plan.Her
mind was concerned with new conceptions, new relationships, and when in
the hall he took her face between his hands and said, "Cheer up!All is
not lost," she put her arms about his neck and laid her cheek against his
breast to hide her tears.What he said was not very cogent, and not in the least literary, but it
was reassuring and lover-like, and when he turned her over to her mother
she was composed, though unwontedly grave.She woke to a new life next morning--a life of compliance, of following,
of dependence upon the judgment of another.She stood in silence while
her lover paid the bills, bought the tickets, and telegraphed their
coming to his father.She acquiesced when he prevented her mother from
telephoning to the ranch.She complied when he countermanded her order to
have the team sent back at once.His judgment ruled, and she enjoyed her
sudden freedom from responsibility.It was novel, and it was very sweet
to think that she was being cared for as she had cared for and shielded
him in the world of the trail.In the little railway-coach, which held a score of passengers, she found
herself among some Eastern travelers who had taken the trip up the Valley
of the Flume in the full belief that they were piercing the heart of the
Rocky Mountains!It amused Wayland almost as much as it amused Berrie
when one man said to his wife:

"Well, I'm glad we've seen the Rockies."After an hour's ride Wayland tactfully withdrew, leaving mother and
daughter to discuss clothes undisturbed by his presence."We must look our best, honey," said Mrs."We will go right to
Mme.Crosby at Battle's, and she'll fit us out.I wish we had more time;
but we haven't, so we must do the best we can.""I want Wayland to choose my hat and traveling-suit," replied Berrie.But you've got to have a lot of other things besides."And
they bent to the joyous work of making out a list of goods to be
purchased as soon as they reached Chicago.Wayland came back with a Denver paper in his hand and a look of disgust
on his face."It's all in here--at least, the outlines of it."Berrie took the journal, and there read the details of Settle's assault
upon the foreman."The fight arose from a remark concerning the Forest
Supervisor's daughter.Ranger Settle resented the gossip, and fell upon
the other man, beating him with the butt of his revolver.Friends of the
foreman claim that the ranger is a drunken bully, and should have been
discharged long ago.The Supervisor for some mysterious reason retains
this man, although he is an incompetent.It is also claimed that
McFarlane put a man on the roll without examination."The Supervisor was
the protagonist of the play, which was plainly political.The attack upon
him was bitter and unjust, and Mrs.McFarlane again declared her
intention of returning to help him in his fight.However, Wayland again
proved to her that her presence would only embarrass the Supervisor."You
would not aid him in the slightest degree.Nash and Landon are with him,
and will refute all these charges."This newspaper story took the light out of their day and the smile from
Berrie's lips, and the women entered the city silent and distressed in
spite of the efforts of their young guide.The nearer the girl came to
the ordeal of facing the elder Norcross, the more she feared the outcome;
but Wayland kept his air of easy confidence, and drove them directly to
the shopping center, believing that under the influence of hats and
gloves they would regain their customary cheer.They had a delightful hour trying on
millinery and coats and gloves.McFarlane,
gladly accepted her commission, and, while suspecting the tender
relationship between the girl and the man, she was tactful enough to
conceal her suspicion."The gentleman is right; you carry simple things
best," she remarked to Berrie, thus showing her own good judgment."Smartly tailored gray or blue suits are your style."Silent, blushing, tousled by the hands of her decorators, Berrie
permitted hats to be perched on her head and jackets buttoned and
unbuttoned about her shoulders till she felt like a worn clothes-horse.Wayland beamed with delight, but she was far less satisfied than he; and
when at last selection was made, she still had her doubts, not of the
clothes, but of her ability to wear them.They seemed so alien to her, so
restrictive and enslaving."You're an easy fitter," said the saleswoman."But"--here she lowered her
voice--"you need a new corset.Thereupon Berrie meekly permitted herself to be led away to a
torture-room.Wayland waited patiently, and when she reappeared all
traces of Bear Tooth Forest had vanished.In a neat tailored suit and a
very "chic" hat, with shoes, gloves, and stockings to match, she was so
transformed, so charmingly girlish in her self-conscious glory, that he
was tempted to embrace her in the presence of the saleswoman.He merely said: "I see the governor's finish!"I don't know myself," responded Berrie."The only thing that feels
natural is my hand.They cinched me so tight I can't eat a thing, and my
shoes hurt."She laughed as she said this, for her use of the vernacular
was conscious.Look at my face--red as a saddle!"This is the time of year when tan is
fashionable.Just smile at him, give
him your grip, and he'll melt.""I know how you feel, but you'll get used to the conventional
boiler-plate and all the rest of it.We all groan and growl when we come
back to it each autumn; but it's a part of being civilized, and we
submit."Notwithstanding his confident advice, Wayland led the two silent and
inwardly dismayed women into the showy cafe of the hotel with some degree
of personal apprehension concerning the approaching interview with his
father.Of course, he did not permit this to appear in the slightest
degree.On the contrary, he gaily ordered a choice lunch, and did his
best to keep his companions from sinking into deeper depression.It pleased him to observe the admiring glances which were turned upon
Berrie, whose hat became her mightily, and, leaning over, he said in a
low voice to Mrs.McFarlane: "Who is the lovely young lady opposite?This rejoiced the mother almost as much as it pleased the daughter, and
she answered, "She looks like one of the Radburns of Lexington, but I
think she's from Louisville."This little play being over, he said, "Now, while our order is coming
I'll run out to the desk and see if the governor has come in or not."XVI

THE PRIVATE CAR


After he went away Berrie turned to her mother with a look in which humor
and awe were blent."Am I dreaming, mother, or am I actually sitting here
in the city?Then, without waiting for an
answer, she fervently added: "Isn't he fine!I
hope his father won't despise me."With justifiable pride in her child, the mother replied: "He can't help
liking you, honey.You look exactly like your grandmother at this moment."I'll try; but I feel like a woodchuck out of his hole."McFarlane continued: "I'm glad we were forced out of the valley.You
might have been shut in there all your life as I have been with your
father.""You don't blame father, do you?"And yet he always was rather easy-going, and you know how
untidy the ranch is.He's always been kindness and sympathy itself; but
his lack of order is a cross.Perhaps now he will resign, rent the ranch,
and move over here.I should like to live in the city for a while, and
I'd like to travel a little.""Wouldn't it be fine if you could!You could live at this hotel if you
wanted to.You need a rest from the ranch and
dish-washing."Wayland returned with an increase of tension in his face.I've sent word saying, 'I am lunching in the cafe with
ladies.'He's a
good deal rougher on the outside than he is at heart.Of course, he's a
bluff old business man, and not at all pretty, and he'll transfix you
with a kind of estimating glare as if you were a tree; but he's actually
very easy to manage if you know how to handle him.Now, I'm not going to
try to explain everything to him at the beginning.I'm going to introduce
him to you in a casual kind of way and give him time to take to you both.He forms his likes and dislikes very quickly."His tone was so positive that her eyes misted with
happiness.I hope you aren't too nervous to
eat.This is the kind of camp fare I
can recommend."Berrie's healthy appetite rose above her apprehension, and she ate with
the keen enjoyment of a child, and her mother said, "It surely is a treat
to get a chance at somebody else's cooking.""Don't you slander your home fare," warned Wayland."It's as good as
this, only different."He sat where he could watch the door, and despite his jocund pose his
eyes expressed growing impatience and some anxiety.They were all well
into their dessert before he called out: "Here he is!"McFarlane could not see the new-comer from where she sat, but Berrie
rose in great excitement as a heavy-set, full-faced man with short, gray
mustache and high, smooth brow entered the room.He did not smile as he
greeted his son, and his penetrating glance questioned even before he
spoke.He seemed to silently ask: "Well, what's all this?How do you
happen to be here?Father, this is Miss
Berea McFarlane, of Bear Tooth Springs."McFarlane politely, coldly; but
he betrayed surprise as Berea took his fingers in her grip.At his son's
solicitation he accepted a seat opposite Berea, but refused dessert.McFarlane and her daughter quite saved my life
over in the valley.Their ranch is the best health resort in Colorado.""Your complexion indicates that," his father responded, dryly."You look
something the way a man of your age ought to look.I needn't ask how
you're feeling.""You needn't, but you may.I'm feeling like a new fiddle--barring a
bruise at the back of my head, which makes a 'hard hat' a burden.I may
as well tell you first off that Mrs.McFarlane is the wife of the Forest
Supervisor at Bear Tooth, and Miss Berea is the able assistant of her
father.Norcross, Senior, examined Berrie precisely as if his eyes were a couple
of X-ray tubes, and as she flushed under his slow scrutiny he said: "I
was not expecting to find the Forest Service in such hands.""I hope you didn't mash his fingers, Berrie."I hope I didn't hurt
you--sometimes I forget.""Miss McFarlane was brought up on a ranch.She can
rope and tie a steer, saddle her own horse, pack an outfit, and all the
rest of it."McFarlane, eager to put Berrie's better part forward, explained:
"She's our only child, Mr.Norcross, and as such has been a constant
companion to her father.She's been to school,
and she can cook and sew as well.""Neither of you correspond exactly to my
notions of a forester's wife and daughter."McFarlane comes from an old Kentucky family, father.Her
grandfather helped to found a college down there."Wayland's anxious desire to create a favorable impression of the women
did not escape the lumberman, but his face remained quite expressionless
as he replied:

"If the life of a cow-hand would give you the vigor this young lady
appears to possess, I'm not sure but you'd better stick to it."Wayland and the two women exchanged glances of relief.But he said: "There's a long
story to tell before we decide on my career.How
is mother, and how are the girls?"Once, in the midst of a lame pursuit of other topics, the elder Norcross
again fixed his eyes on Berea, saying: "I wish my girls had your weight
and color."He paused a moment, then resumed with weary infliction: "Mrs.Norcross has always been delicate, and all her children--even her
son--take after her.I've maintained a private and very expensive
hospital for nearly thirty years."This regretful note in his father's voice gave Wayland confidence."Come, let's adjourn to the parlor and talk things over at our ease."They all followed him, and after showing the mother and daughter to their
seats near a window he drew his father into a corner, and in rapid
undertone related the story of his first meeting with Berrie, of his
trouble with young Belden, of his camping trip, minutely describing the
encounter on the mountainside, and ended by saying, with manly
directness: "I would be up there in the mountains in a box if Berrie had
not intervened.She's a noble girl, father, and is foolish enough to like
me, and I'm going to marry her and try to make her happy."The old lumberman, who had listened intently all through this impassioned
story, displayed no sign of surprise at its closing declaration; but his
eyes explored his son's soul with calm abstraction."Send her over to
me," he said, at last.I want to talk with
her--alone."Wayland went back to the women with an air of victory."He wants to see
you, Berrie.She might have resented the father's lack of gallantry; but she did not.On the contrary, she rose and walked resolutely over to where he sat,
quite ready to defend herself.He did not rise to meet her, but she did
not count that against him, for there was nothing essentially rude in his
manner."Sit down," he said, not unkindly."I want to have _you_ tell me about my
son.Now let's have your side of
the story."She took a seat and faced him with eyes as steady as his own.Now, it seems to me that seven weeks is very
short acquaintance for a decision like that.His voice was slightly cynical as he went on."But you were tolerably
sure about that other fellow--that rancher with the fancy name--weren't
you?"She flushed at this, but waited for him to go on."Don't you think
it possible that your fancy for Wayland is also temporary?""I never felt toward any one the way I
do toward Wayland.Her tone, her expression of eyes stopped this line of inquiry."Now, my dear young lady, I am a business man as well as a
father, and the marriage of my son is a weighty matter.I am hoping to have him take up and carry on my business.To
be quite candid, I didn't expect him to select his wife from a Colorado
ranch.I considered him out of the danger-zone.I have always understood
that women were scarce in the mountains.I'm
not one of those fools who are always trying to marry their sons and
daughters into the ranks of the idle rich.I don't care a hang about
social position, and I've got money enough for my son and my son's wife.But he's all the boy I have, and I don't want him to make a mistake.""Neither do I," she answered, simply, her eyes suffused with tears."If I
thought he would be sorry--"

He interrupted again."Oh, you can't tell that now.I don't say he's making a mistake in selecting you.You may be just
the woman he needs.He tells me you have taken an active part in the management of
the ranch and the forest."I've always worked with my father--yes, sir.""I don't know much about any other kind."Well, how about city life--housekeeping and all that?""So long as I am with Wayland I sha'n't mind what I do or where I live.""At the same time you figure he's going to have a large income, I
suppose?He's told you of his rich father, hasn't he?"Berrie's tone was a shade resentful of his insinuation."He has never
said much about his family one way or another.He only said you wanted
him to go into business in Chicago, and that he wanted to do something
else.Of course, I could see by his ways and the clothes he wore that
he'd been brought up in what we'd call luxury, but we never inquired into
his affairs."But money don't count for as much with us in
the valley as it does in the East.Wayland seemed so kind of sick and
lonesome, and I felt sorry for him the first time I saw him.And then his way of talking, of looking at things was so
new and beautiful to me I couldn't help caring for him.I had never met
any one like him.I thought he was a 'lunger'--"

"A what?""A consumptive; that is, I did at first.It seemed
terrible that any one so fine should be condemned like that--and so--I
did all I could to help him, to make him happy.I thought he hadn't long
to live.Everything he said and did was wonderful to me, like poetry and
music.And then when he began to grow stronger and I saw that he was
going to get well, and Cliff went on the rampage and showed the yellow
streak, and I gave him back his ring--I didn't know even then how much
Wayland meant to me.But on our trip over the Range I understood.He made Cliff seem like a savage, and I wanted
him to know it.I want to make him happy,
and if he wishes me to be his wife I'll go anywhere he says--only I think
he should stay out here till he gets entirely well."The old man's eyes softened during her plea, and at its close a slight
smile moved the corners of his mouth."You've thought it all out, I see.But if he takes you and
stays in Colorado he can't expect me to share the profits of my business
with him, can he?"However, I'm persuaded he's in good hands."She took his hand, not knowing just what to reply.He examined her
fingers with intent gaze."I didn't know any woman could have such a grip."He thoughtfully took
her biceps in his left hand.Then, in ironical
protest, he added: "Good God, no!I can't have you come into my family.You'd make caricatures of my wife and daughters.Are all the girls out in
the valley like you?"Most of them pride themselves on _not_ being
horsewomen.Mighty few of 'em ever ride a horse.I'm a kind of a tomboy
to them."I suppose they'd all
like to live in the city and wear low-necked gowns and high-heeled shoes.No, I can't consent to your marriage with my son.I can see already signs of your
deterioration.Except for your color and that grip you already look like
upper Broadway.The next thing will be a slit skirt and a diamond
garter."She flushed redly, conscious of her new corset, her silk stockings, and
her pinching shoes."It's all on the outside," she declared."Under this
toggery I'm the same old trailer.It don't take long to get rid of these
things.I'm just playing a part to-day--for you."You've said good-by to the
cinch, I can see that.You're on the road to opera boxes and limousines.What would you advise Wayland to do if you knew I was
hard against his marrying you?Come, now, I can see you're a
clear-sighted individual."Yes; I'm going to ask my father to buy a ranch near here, where mother
can have more of the comforts of life, and where we can all live together
till Wayland is able to stand city life again.Then, if you want him to
go East, I will go with him."They had moved slowly back toward the others, and as Wayland came to meet
them Norcross said, with dry humor: "I admire your lady of the cinch
hand.She seems to be a person of singular good nature and most uncommon
shrewd--"

Wayland, interrupting, caught at his father's hand and wrung it
frenziedly."I'm glad--"

"Here!A look of pain covered the father's face."That's the fist
she put in the press."They all laughed at his joke, and then he gravely resumed."I say I
admire her, but it's a shame to ask such a girl to marry an invalid like
you.Furthermore, I won't have her taken East.She'd bleach out and lose
that grip in a year.I won't have her contaminated by the city."He mused
deeply while looking at his son."Would life on a wheat-ranch accessible
to this hotel by motor-car be endurable to you?"Mind you, I don't advise her to do it!"he added,
interrupting his son's outcry."I think she's taking all the chances.""I'm old-fashioned in my notions of marriage,
Mrs.I grew up when women were helpmates, such as, I judge,
you've been.Of course, it's all guesswork to me at the moment; but I
have an impression that my son has fallen into an unusual run of luck.As
I understand it, you're all out for a pleasure trip.Now, my private car
is over in the yards, and I suggest you all come along with me to
California--"

"Governor, you're a wonder!""That'll give us time to get better acquainted, and if we all like one
another just as well when we get back--well, we'll buy the best farm in
the North Platte and--"

"It's a cinch we get that ranch," interrupted Wayland, with a triumphant
glance at Berea."A private car, like a
yacht, is a terrible test of friendship."But his warning held no terrors
for the young lovers.Soft in the gloom her glances grew,
     With gentle tears he could not see.He took the chain from off his neck,
     Hid in the silver chain there lay
   Three rubies, without flaw or fleck.He drew her close; the moonless skies
     Shed little light; the fire was dead.Soft pity filled her youthful eyes,
     And many tender things she said.Throughout the hot and silent night
     All that he asked of her she gave.And, left alone ere morning light,
     He went serenely to the grave,

   Happy; for even when the rope
     Confined his neck, his thoughts were free,
   And centered round his Secret Hope
     The little life that was to be.When Poppies bloomed again, she bore
     His child who gaily laughed and crowed,
   While round his tiny neck he wore
     The rubies given on the road.For his small sake she wished to wait,
     But vainly to forget she tried,
   And grieving for the Prisoner's fate,
     She broke her gentle heart and died.Song of Taj Mahomed

   Dear is my inlaid sword; across the Border
   It brought me much reward; dear is my Mistress,
   The jewelled treasure of an amorous hour.Dear beyond measure are my dreams and Fancies.These I adore; for these I live and labour,
   Holding them more than sword or jewelled Mistress,
   For this indeed may rust, and that prove faithless,
   But, till my limbs are dust, I have my Fancies.The Garden of Kama:

   Kama the Indian Eros

   The daylight is dying,
   The Flying fox flying,
         Amber and amethyst burn in the sky.See, the sun throws a late,
   Lingering, roseate
         Kiss to the landscape to bid it good-bye.Oh, come, unresisting,
         Lovely, expectant, on tentative feet.Shadow shall cover us,
   Roses bend over us,
         Making a bride chamber, sacred and sweet.We know not life's reason,
   The length of its season,
         Know not if they know, the great Ones above.We none of us sought it,
   And few could support it,
         Were it not gilt with the glamour of love.But much is forgiven
   To Gods who have given,
         If but for an hour, the Rapture of Youth.You do not yet know it,
   But Kama shall show it,
         Changing your dreams to his Exquisite Truth.The Fireflies shall light you,
   And naught shall afright you,
         Nothing shall trouble the Flight of the Hours.Come, for I wait for you,
   Night is too late for you,
         Come, while the twilight is closing the flowers.Every breeze still is,
   And, scented with lilies,
         Cooled by the twilight, refreshed by the dew,
   The garden lies breathless,
   Where Kama, the Deathless,
         In the hushed starlight, is waiting for you.Camp Follower's Song, Gomal River

   We have left Gul Kach behind us,
      Are marching on Apozai,--
   Where pleasure and rest are waiting
      To welcome us by and by.We're falling back from the Gomal,
      Across the Gir-dao plain,
   The camping ground is deserted,
      We'll never come back again.Along the rocks and the defiles,
      The mules and the camels wind.Good-bye to Rahimut-Ullah,
      The man who is left behind.For some we lost in the skirmish,
      And some were killed in the fight,
   But he was captured by fever,
      In the sentry pit, at night.A rifle shot had been swifter,
      Less trouble a sabre thrust,
   But his Fate decided fever,
      And each man dies as he must.The wavering flames rise high,
   The flames of our burning grass-huts,
      Against the black of the sky.We hear the sound of the river,
      An ever-lessening moan,
   The hearts of us all turn backwards
      To where he is left alone.We sing up a little louder,
      We know that we feel bereft,
   We're leaving the camp together,
      And only one of us left.The only one, out of many,
      And each must come to his end,
   I wish I could stop this singing,
      He happened to be my friend.We're falling back from the Gomal
      We're marching on Apozai,
   And pleasure and rest are waiting
      To welcome us by and by.Perhaps the feast will taste bitter,
      The lips of the girls less kind,--
   Because of Rahimut-Ullah,
      The man who is left behind!Song of the Colours: by Taj Mahomed

   _Rose-colour_
   Rose Pink am I, the colour gleams and glows
     In many a flower; her lips, those tender doors
   By which, in time of love, love's essence flows
     From him to her, are dyed in delicate Rose.Mine is the earliest Ruby light that pours
     Out of the East, when day's white gates unclose.On downy peach, and maiden's downier cheek
     I, in a flush of radiant bloom, alight,
   Clinging, at sunset, to the shimmering peak
     I veil its snow in floods of Roseate light._Azure_
   Mine is the heavenly hue of Azure skies,
     Where the white clouds lie soft as seraphs' wings,
   Mine the sweet, shadowed light in innocent eyes,
     Whose lovely looks light only on lovely things.Mine the Blue Distance, delicate and clear,
     Mine the Blue Glory of the morning sea,
   All that the soul so longs for, finds not here,
     Fond eyes deceive themselves, and find in me.to the Royal Red of living Blood,
     Let loose by steel in spirit-freeing flood,
   Forced from faint forms, by toil or torture torn
     Staining the patient gates of life new born.Colour of War and Rage, of Pomp and Show,
     Banners that flash, red flags that flaunt and glow,
   Colour of Carnage, Glory, also Shame,
     Raiment of women women may not name.I hide in mines, where unborn Rubies dwell,
     Flicker and flare in fitful fire in Hell,
   The outpressed life-blood of the grape is mine,
     Hail!Strong am I, over strong, to eyes that tire,
     In the hot hue of Rapine, Riot, Flame.Death and Despair are black, War and Desire,
     The two red cards in Life's unequal game._Green_
   I am the Life of Forests, and Wandering Streams,
     Green as the feathery reeds the Florican love,
   Young as a maiden, who of her marriage dreams,
     Still sweetly inexperienced in ways of Love.Colour of Youth and Hope, some waves are mine,
     Some emerald reaches of the evening sky.See, in the Spring, my sweet green Promise shine,
     Never to be fulfilled, of by and by.Never to be fulfilled; leaves bud, and ever
     Something is wanting, something falls behind;
   The flowered Solstice comes indeed, but never
     That light and lovely summer men divined._Violet_
   I were the colour of Things, (if hue they had)
         That are hard to name.Of curious, twisted thoughts that men call "mad"
         Or oftener "shame."Of that delicate vice, that is hardly vice,
         So reticent, rare,
   Ethereal, as the scent of buds and spice,
         In this Eastern air.On palm-fringed shores I colour the Cowrie shell,
         With its edges curled;
   And, deep in Datura poison buds, I dwell
         In a perfumed world.My lilac tinges the edge of the evening sky
         Where the sunset clings.My purple lends an Imperial Majesty
         To the robes of kings._Yellow_
   Gold am I, and for me, ever men curse and pray,
     Selling their souls and each other, by night and day.A sordid colour, and yet, I make some things fair,
     Dying sunsets, fields of corn, and a maiden's hair.Thus they discoursed in the daytime,--Violet, Yellow, and Blue,
     Emerald, Scarlet, and Rose-colour, the pink and perfect hue.Thus they spoke in the sunshine, when their beauty was manifest,
     Till the Night came, and the Silence, and gave them an equal rest.Lalila, to the Ferengi Lover

   Why above others was I so blessed
      And honoured?to be chosen one
   To hold you, sleeping, against my breast,
      As now I may hold your only son.You gave your life to me in a kiss;
   Have I done well, for that past delight,
      In return, to have given you this?Look down at his face, your face, beloved,
      His eyes are azure as yours are blue.In every line of his form is proved
      How well I loved you, and only you.I felt the secret hope at my heart
      Turned suddenly to the living joy,
   And knew that your life and mine had part
      As golden grains in a brass alloy.And learning thus, that your child was mine,
      Thrilled by the sense of its stirring life,
   I held myself as a sacred shrine
      Afar from pleasure, and pain, and strife,

   That all unworthy I might not be
      Of that you had deigned to cause to dwell
   Hidden away in the heart of me,
      As white pearls hide in a dusky shell.Do you remember, when first you laid
      Your lips on mine, that enchanted night?My eyes were timid, my lips afraid,
      You seemed so slender and strangely white.I always tremble; the moments flew
      Swiftly to dawn that took you away,
   But this is a small and lovely you
      Content to rest in my arms all day.Oh, since you have sought me, Lord, for this,
      And given your only child to me,
   My life devoted to yours and his,
      Whilst I am living, will always be.And after death, through the long To Be,
      (Which, I think, must surely keep love's laws,)
   I, should you chance to have need of me,
      Am ever and always, only yours.On the City Wall

   Upon the City Ramparts, lit up by sunset gleam,
   The Blue eyes that conquer, meet the Darker eyes that dream.The Dark eyes, so Eastern, and the Blue eyes from the West,
   The last alight with action, the first so full of rest.Brown, that seem to hold the Past; its magic mystery,
   Blue, that catch the early light, of ages yet to be.Meet and fall and meet again, then linger, look, and smile,
   Time and distance all forgotten, for a little while.Happy on the city wall, in the warm spring weather,
   All the force of Nature's laws, drawing them together.East and West so gaily blending, for a little space,
   All the sunshine seems to centre, round th' Enchanted place!One rides down the dusty road, one watches from the wall,
   Azure eyes would fain return, and Amber eyes recall;

   Would fain be on the ramparts, and resting heart to heart,
   But time o' love is overpast, East and West must part.Those are dim, and ride away, these cry themselves to sleep._"Oh, since Love is all so short, the sob so near the smile,_
   _Blue eyes that always conquer us, is it worth your while?"_





"Love Lightly"

   There were Roses in the hedges, and Sunshine in the sky,
   Red Lilies in the sedges, where the water rippled by,
   A thousand Bulbuls singing, oh, how jubilant they were,
   And a thousand flowers flinging their sweetness on the air.But you, who sat beside me, had a shadow in your eyes,
   Their sadness seemed to chide me, when I gave you scant replies;
   You asked "Did I remember?"In vain you fanned the ember, for the love flame was not there."And so, since you are tired of me, you ask me to forget,
     What is the use of caring, now that you no longer care?When Love is dead his Memory can only bring regret,
     But how can I forget you with the flowers in your hair?"What use the scented Roses, or the azure of the sky?They are sweet when Love reposes, but then he had to die.What could I do in leaving you, but ask you to forget,--
   I suffered, too, in grieving you; I all but loved you yet.But half love is a treason, that no lover can forgive,
   I had loved you for a season, I had no more to give.You saw my passion faltered, for I could but let you see,
   And it was not I that altered, but Fate that altered me.And so, since I am tired of love, I ask you to forget,
     What is the use you caring, now that I no longer care?When Love is dead, his Memory can only bring regret;
     Forget me, oh, forget me, and my flower-scented hair!No Rival Like the Past

   As those who eat a Luscious Fruit, sunbaked,
     Full of sweet juice, with zest, until they find
   It finished, and their appetite unslaked,
     And so return and eat the pared-off rind;--

   We, who in Youth, set white and careless teeth
     In the Ripe Fruits of Pleasure while they last,
   Later, creep back to gnaw the cast-off sheath,
     And find there is no Rival like the Past.Verse by Taj Mahomed

   When first I loved, I gave my very soul
   Utterly unreserved to Love's control,
   But Love deceived me, wrenched my youth away
   And made the gold of life for ever grey.Long I lived lonely, yet I tried in vain
   With any other Joy to stifle pain;
   There _is_ no other joy, I learned to know,
   And so returned to Love, as long ago.Yet I, this little while ere I go hence,
   Love very lightly now, in self-defence.Lines by Taj Mahomed

   This passion is but an ember
     Of a Sun, of a Fire, long set;
   I could not live and remember,
     And so I love and forget.You say, and the tone is fretful,
     That my mourning days were few,
   You call me over forgetful--
     My God, if you only knew!There is no Breeze to Cool the Heat of Love

   The listless Palm-trees catch the breeze above
     The pile-built huts that edge the salt Lagoon,
   There is no Breeze to cool the heat of love,
     No wind from land or sea, at night or noon.Perfumed and robed I wait, my Lord, for you,
     And my heart waits alert, with strained delight,
   My flowers are loath to close, as though they knew
     That you will come to me before the night.In the Verandah all the lights are lit,
     And softly veiled in rose to please your eyes,
   Between the pillars flying foxes flit,
     Their wings transparent on the lilac skies.Come soon, my Lord, come soon, I almost fear
     My heart may fail me in this keen suspense,
   Break with delight, at last, to know you near.Pleasure is one with Pain, if too intense.I envy these: the steps that you will tread,
     The jasmin that will touch you by its leaves,
   When, in your slender height, you stoop your head
     At the low door beneath the palm-thatched eaves.For though you utterly belong to me,
     And love has done his utmost 'twixt us twain,
   Your slightest, careless touch yet seems to be
     That keen delight so much akin to pain.The night breeze blows across the still Lagoon,
     And stirs the Palm-trees till they wave above
   Our pile-built huts; Oh, come, my Lord, come soon,
     There is no Breeze to cool the heat of love.Every time you give yourself to me,
     The gift seems greater, and yourself more fair,
   This slight-built, palm-thatched hut has come to be
     A temple, since, my Lord, you visit there.And as the water, gurgling softly, goes
     Among the piles beneath the slender floor;
   I hear it murmur, as it seaward flows,
     Of the great Wonder seen upon the shore.The Miracle, that you should come to me,
     Whom the whole world, seeing, can but desire,
   It is as though some White Star stooped to be
     The messmate of our little cooking fire.Leaving the Glory of his Purple Skies,
     And the White Friendship of the Crescent Moon,
   And yet;--I look into your brilliant eyes,
     And find content; Oh, come, my Lord, come soon.Perfumed and robed I wait for you, I wait,
     The flowers that please you wreathed about my hair,
   And this poor face set forth in jewelled state,
     So more than proud since you have found it fair.My lute is ready, and the fragrant drink
     Your lips may honour, how it will rejoice
   Losing its life in yours!the lute I think
     But wastes the time when I might hear your voice.Your slightest, as your utmost, wish or will,
   Whether it please you to caress or slay,
     It would please me to give obedience still.I would delight to die beneath your kiss;
     I envy that young maiden who was slain,
   So her warm blood, flowing beneath the kiss,
     Might ease the wounded Sultan of his pain--

   If she loved him as I love you, my Lord.There is no pleasure on the earth so sweet
   As is the pain endured for one adored;
     If I lay crushed beneath your slender feet

   I should be happy!Ah, come soon, come soon,
     See how the stars grow large and white above,
   The land breeze blows across the salt Lagoon,
     There is no Breeze to cool the heat of love.Malay Song

   The Stars await, serene and white,
     The unarisen moon;
   Oh, come and stay with me to-night,
     Beside the salt Lagoon!My hut is small, but as you lie,
     You see the lighted shore,
   And hear the rippling water sigh
     Beneath the pile-raised floor.No gift have I of jewels or flowers,
     My room is poor and bare:
   But all the silver sea is ours,
     And all the scented air

   Blown from the mainland, where there grows
     Th' "Intriguer of the Night,"
   The flower that you have named Tube rose,
     Sweet scented, slim, and white.The flower that, when the air is still
     And no land breezes blow,
   From its pale petals can distil
     A phosphorescent glow.I see your ship at anchor ride;
     Her "captive lightning" shine.Before she takes to-morrow's tide,
     Let this one night be mine!Though in the language of your land
     My words are poor and few,
   Oh, read my eyes, and understand,
     I give my youth to you!The Temple Dancing Girl

   You will be mine; those lightly dancing feet,
     Falling as softly on the careless street
   As the wind-loosened petals of a flower,
     Will bring you here, at the Appointed Hour.And all the Temple's little links and laws
     Will not for long protect your loveliness.I have a stronger force to aid my cause,
     Nature's great Law, to love and to possess!Throughout those sleepless watches, when I lay
     Wakeful, desiring what I might not see,
   I knew (it helped those hours, from dusk to day),
     In this one thing, Fate would be kind to me.You will consent, through all my veins like wine
     This prescience flows; your lips meet mine above,
   Your clear soft eyes look upward into mine
     Dim in a silent ecstasy of love.The clustered softness of your waving hair,
     That curious paleness which enchants me so,
   And all your delicate strength and youthful air,
     Destiny will compel you to bestow!Refuse, withdraw, and hesitate awhile,
     Your young reluctance does but fan the flame;
   My partner, Love, waits, with a tender smile,
     Who play against him play a losing game.I, strong in nothing else, have strength in this,
     The subtlest, most resistless, force we know
   Is aiding me; and you must stoop and kiss:
     The genius of the race will have it so!Yet, make it not too long, nor too intense
     My thirst; lest I should break beneath the strain,
   And the worn nerves, and over-wearied sense,
     Enjoy not what they spent themselves to gain.Lest, in the hour when you consent to share
     That human passion Beauty makes divine,
   I, over worn, should find you over fair,
     Lest I should die before I make you mine.You will consent, those slim, reluctant feet,
     Falling as lightly on the careless street
   As the white petals of a wind-worn flower,
     Will bring you here, at the Appointed Hour.Hira-Singh's Farewell to Burmah

   On the wooden deck of the wooden Junk, silent, alone, we lie,
   With silver foam about the bow, and a silver moon in the sky:
   A glimmer of dimmer silver here, from the anklets round your feet,
   Our lips may close on each other's lips, but never our souls may meet.For though in my arms you lie at rest, your name I have never heard,
   To carry a thought between us two, we have not a single word.And yet what matter we do not speak, when the ardent eyes have spoken,
   The way of love is a sweeter way, when the silence is unbroken.As a wayward Fancy, tired at times, of the cultured Damask Rose,
   Drifts away to the tangled copse, where the wild Anemone grows;
   So the ordered and licit love ashore, is hardly fresh and free
   As this light love in the open wind and salt of the outer sea.So sweet you are, with your tinted cheeks and your small caressive hands,
   What if I carried you home with me, where our Golden Temple stands?Yet, this were folly indeed; to bind, in fetters of permanence,
   A passing dream whose enchantment charms because of its trancience.Life is ever a slave to Time; we have but an hour to rest,
   Her steam is up and her lighters leave, the vessel that takes me west;
   And never again we two shall meet, as we chance to meet to-night,
   On the Junk, whose painted eyes gaze forth, in desolate want of sight.And what is love at its best, but this?Conceived by a passing glance,
   Nursed and reared in a transient mood, on a drifting Sea of Chance.For rudderless craft are all our loves, among the rocks and the shoals,
   Well we may know one another's speech, but never each other's souls.Give here your lips and kiss me again, we have but a moment more,
   Before we set the sail to the mast, before we loosen the oar.Good-bye to you, and my thanks to you, for the rest you let me share,
   While this night drifted away to the Past, to join the Nights that Were.Starlight

   O beautiful Stars, when you see me go
     Hither and thither, in search of love,
   Do you think me faithless, who gleam and glow
     Serene and fixed in the blue above?O Stars, so golden, it is not so.But there is a garden I dare not see,
     There is a place where I fear to go,
   Since the charm and glory of life to me
     The brown earth covered there, long ago.O Stars, you saw it, you know, you know.Hither and thither I wandering go,
     With aimless haste and wearying fret;
   In a search for pleasure and love?Not so,
     Seeking desperately to forget.You see so many, O Stars, you know.Sampan Song

   A little breeze blew over the sea,
       And it came from far away,
   Across the fields of millet and rice,
   All warm with sunshine and sweet with spice,
   It lifted his curls and kissed him thrice,
       As upon the deck he lay.It said, "Oh, idle upon the sea,
       Awake and with sleep have done,
   Haul up the widest sail of the prow,
   And come with me to the rice fields now,
   She longs, oh, how can I tell you how,
       To show you your first-born son!"Song of the Devoted Slave

   There is one God: Mahomed his Prophet.Had I his power
   I would take the topmost peaks of the snow-clad Himalayas,
   And would range them around your dwelling, during the heats of summer,
   To cool the airs that fan your serene and delicate presence,
                   Had I the power.Your courtyard should ever be filled with the fleetest of camels
   Laden with inlaid armour, jewels and trappings for horses,
   Ripe dates from Egypt, and spices and musk from Arabia.And the sacred waters of Zem-Zem well, transported thither,
   Should bubble and flow in your chamber, to bathe the delicate
   Slender and wayworn feet of my Lord, returning from travel,
                   Had I the power.Fine woven silk, from the further East, should conceal your beauty,
   Clinging around you in amorous folds; caressive, silken,
   Beautiful long-lashed, sweet-voiced Persian boys should, kneeling, serve you,
   And the floor beneath your sandalled feet should be smooth and golden,
                   Had I the power.And if ever your clear and stately thoughts should turn to women,
   Kings' daughters, maidens, should be appointed to your caresses,
   That the youth and the strength of my Lord might never be wasted
   In light or sterile love; but enrich the world with his children.Whilst I should sit in the outer court of the Water Palace
   To await the time when you went forth, for Pleasure or Warfare,
   Descending the stairs rose crowned, or armed and arrayed in purple,--
   To mark the place where your steps have fallen, and kiss the footprints,
                   Had I the power.The Singer

   The singer only sang the Joy of Life,
     For all too well, alas!the singer knew
   How hard the daily toil, how keen the strife,
     How salt the falling tear; the joys how few.He who thinks hard soon finds it hard to live,
     Learning the Secret Bitterness of Things:
   So, leaving thought, the singer strove to give
     A level lightness to his lyric strings.He only sang of Love; its joy and pain,
     But each man in his early season loves;
   Each finds the old, lost Paradise again,
     Unfolding leaves, and roses, nesting doves.And though that sunlit time flies all too fleetly,
     Delightful Days that dance away too soon!Its early morning freshness lingers sweetly
     Throughout life's grey and tedious afternoon.And he, whose dreams enshrine her tender eyes,
     And she, whose senses wait his waking hand,
   Impatient youth, that tired but sleepless lies,
     Will read perhaps, and reading, understand.Oh, roseate lips he would have loved to kiss,
     Oh, eager lovers that he never knew!What should you know of him, or words of his?--
     But all the songs he sang were sung for you!Malaria

   He lurks among the reeds, beside the marsh,
     Red oleanders twisted in His hair,
   His eyes are haggard and His lips are harsh,
     Upon His breast the bones show gaunt and bare.The green and stagnant waters lick His feet,
     And from their filmy, iridescent scum
   Clouds of mosquitoes, gauzy in the heat,
     Rise with His gifts: Death and Delirium.His messengers: They bear the deadly taint
     On spangled wings aloft and far away,
   Making thin music, strident and yet faint,
     From golden eve to silver break of day.The baffled sleeper hears th' incessant whine
     Through his tormented dreams, and finds no rest
   The thirsty insects use his blood for wine,
     Probe his blue veins and pasture on his breast.While far away He in the marshes lies,
     Staining the stagnant water with His breath,
   An endless hunger burning in His eyes,
     A famine unassuaged, whose food is Death.He hides among the ghostly mists that float
     Over the water, weird and white and chill,
   And peasants, passing in their laden boat,
     Shiver and feel a sense of coming ill.A thousand burn and die; He takes no heed,
     Their bones, unburied, strewn upon the plain,
   Only increase the frenzy of His greed
     To add more victims to th' already slain.He loves the haggard frame, the shattered mind,
     Gloats with delight upon the glazing eye,
   Yet, in one thing, His cruelty is kind,
     He sends them lovely dreams before they die;

   Dreams that bestow on them their heart's desire,
     Visions that find them mad, and leave them blest,
   To sink, forgetful of the fever's fire,
     Softly, as in a lover's arms, to rest.Fancy

   Far in the Further East the skilful craftsman
       Fashioned this fancy for the West's delight.This rose and azure Dragon, crouching softly
       Upon the satin skin, close-grained and white.And you lay silent, while his slender needles
       Pricked the intricate pattern on your arm,
   Combining deftly Cruelty and Beauty,
       That subtle union, whose child is charm.Charm irresistible: the lovely something
       We follow in our dreams, but may not reach.The unattainable Divine Enchantment,
       Hinted in music, never heard in speech.This from the blue design exhales towards me,
       As incense rises from the Homes of Prayer,
   While the unfettered eyes, allured and rested,
       Urge the forbidden lips to stoop and share;

   Share in the sweetness of the rose and azure
       Traced in the Dragon's form upon the white
   Curve of the arm.Ah, curb thyself, my fancy,
       Where would'st thou drift in this enchanted flight?Feroza

   The evening sky was as green as Jade,
      As Emerald turf by Lotus lake,
   Behind the Kafila far she strayed,
      (The Pearls are lost if the Necklace break!)A lingering freshness touched the air
      From palm-trees, clustered around a Spring,
   The great, grim Desert lay vast and bare,
      But Youth is ever a careless thing.The Raiders threw her upon the sand,
      Men of the Wilderness know no laws,
   They tore the Amethysts off her hand,
      And rent the folds of her veiling gauze.They struck the lips that they might have kissed,
      Pitiless they to her pain and fear,
   And wrenched the gold from her broken wrist,
      No use to cry; there were none to hear.Her scarlet mouth and her onyx eyes,
      Her braided hair in its silken sheen,
   Were surely meet for a Lover's prize,
      But Fate dissented, and stepped between.Across the Zenith the vultures fly,
      Cruel of beak and heavy of wing.This Month the Almonds Bloom at Kandahar

   I hate this City, seated on the Plain,
     The clang and clamour of the hot Bazar,
   Knowing, amid the pauses of my pain,
     This month the Almonds bloom in Kandahar.The Almond-trees, that sheltered my Delight,
     Screening my happiness as evening fell.It was well worth--that most Enchanted Night--
     This life in torment, and the next in Hell!People are kind to me; one More than Kind,
     Her lashes lie like fans upon her cheek,
   But kindness is a burden on my mind,
     And it is weariness to hear her speak.For though that Kaffir's bullet holds me here,
     My thoughts are ever free, and wander far,
   To where the Lilac Hills rise, soft and clear,
     Beyond the Almond Groves of Kandahar.He followed me to Sibi, to the Fair,
     The Horse-fair, where he shot me weeks ago,
   But since they fettered him I have no care
     That my returning steps to health are slow.They will not loose him till they know my fate,
     And I rest here till I am strong to slay,
   Meantime, my Heart's Delight may safely wait
     Among the Almond blossoms, sweet as they.Well, he won by day,
     But I won, what I so desired, by night,
   _My_ arms held what his lack till Judgment Day!Also, the game is not yet over--quite!Wait, Amir Ali, wait till I come forth
     To kill, before the Almond-trees are green,
   To raze thy very Memory from the North,
     _So that thou art not, and thou hast not been!_

   Aha!it is Duty
     To rid the World from Shiah dogs like thee,
   They are but ill-placed moles on Islam's beauty,
     Such as the Faithful cannot calmly see!Also thy bullet hurts me not a little,
     Thy Shiah blood might serve to salve the ill.Maybe some Afghan Promises are brittle;
     Never a Promise to oneself, to kill!Now I grow stronger, I have days of leisure
     To shape my coming Vengeance as I lie,
   And, undisturbed by call of War or Pleasure,
     Can dream of many ways a man may die.I shall not torture thee, thy friends might rally,
     Some Fate assist thee and prove false to me;
   Oh!shouldst thou now escape me, Amir Ali,
     This would torment me through Eternity!Aye, Shuffa-Jan, I will be quiet indeed,
     Give here the Hakim's powder if thou wilt,
   And thou mayst sit, for I perceive thy need,
     And rest thy soft-haired head upon my quilt.Thy gentle love will not disturb a mind
     That loves and hates beneath a fiercer Star.Also, thou know'st, my Heart is left behind,
     Among the Almond-trees of Kandahar!End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of India's Love Lyrics, by 
Adela Florence Cory Nicolson (AKA Laurence Hope), et al."I suppose she would for a time; but then she has so many pets to take
up her attention."Just then the child ran in, her eyes filled with tears, exclaiming,--

"Father, does Jacko know any better?"Because," she went on, "I found him crouched down in his cage, looking
very sorry; and nurse says he ought to be ashamed of himself, cutting
up such ridiculous capers.""I dare say he feels rather guilty," remarked Mr."He must be
taught better, or your mother will be tired of him."When her father had gone to the city, Minnie looked so grave that her
mother, to comfort her, took the book and read her some stories.A few
of them I will repeat to you."A lady was returning from India, in a ship on board of which there was
a monkey.She was a very mild, gentle creature, and readily learned any
thing that was taught her.When she went to lie down at night, she made
up her bed in imitation of her mistress, then got in and wrapped herself
up neatly with the quilt.Sometimes she would wrap her head with a
handkerchief."When she did wrong, she would kneel and clasp her hands, seeming
earnestly to ask to be forgiven.""That's a good story, mamma.""Yes, dear; and here is another.""A gentleman boarding with his wife at a hotel in Paris had a pet
monkey, who was very polite.One day his master met him going down
stairs; and when the gentleman said 'good morning,' the animal took off
his cap and made a very polite bow.Upon
this the monkey held out a square piece of paper.said the gentleman; 'your mistress' gown is dusty.'"Jack instantly took a small brush from his master's pocket, raised the
hem of the lady's dress, cleaned it, and then did the same to his
master's shoes, which were also dusty."When they gave him any thing to eat, he did not cram his pouches with
it, but delicately and tidily devoured it; and when, as frequently
occurred, strangers gave him money, he always put it in his master's
hands.""Do you think, mamma, I could teach Jacko to do so?"inquired Minnie,
eagerly."I can't say, my dear; and indeed I think it would be hardly worth the
pains to spend a great deal of time in teaching him.He seems to learn
quite fast enough by himself.Indeed, he is so full of tricks, and so
troublesome to cook in hiding her kitchen utensils, I am afraid we shall
have to put him in close confinement.""I had rather uncle Frank would carry him back to Africa," sighed the
child."Well, dear, I wouldn't grieve about it now.We must manage somehow till
uncle Frank comes, and then perhaps he can tell us what to do."A monkey living with a gentleman in the country became so troublesome
that the servants were constantly complaining.""That seems similar to our case," said the lady, smiling, as she
interrupted the reading."One day, having his offers of assistance rudely repulsed, he went into
the next house by a window in the second story, which was unfortunately
open.Here he pulled out a small drawer, where the lady kept ribbons,
laces, and handkerchiefs, and putting them in a foot-tub, rubbed away
vigorously for an hour, with all the soap and water there were to be
found in the room."When the lady returned to the chamber, he was busily engaged in
spreading the torn and disfigured remnants to dry."He knew well enough he was doing wrong; for, without her speaking to
him, he made off quickly and ran home, where he hid himself in the case
of the large kitchen clock."The servants at once knew he had been in mischief, as this was his
place of refuge when he was in disgrace."One day he watched the cook while she was preparing some partridges for
dinner, and concluded that all birds ought to be so treated.He soon
managed to get into the yard, where his mistress kept a few pet bantam
fowls, and, after eating their eggs, he secured one of the hens, and
began plucking it.The noise of the poor bird called some of the
servants to the rescue, when they found the half-plucked creature in
such a pitiable condition that they killed it at once.Monkey was chained up, and soon died."Minnie looked very grave after hearing this story, and presently said,
"I wonder how old that monkey was.""The book does not mention his age, my dear."I was thinking that perhaps, as Jacko grows older, he may learn better;
and then I said to myself, 'That one must have been young.'""If a monkey is really inclined to be vicious, he is almost unbearable,"
remarked the lady."His company does not begin to compensate for the
trouble he makes.Sometimes he is only cunning, but otherwise mild and
tractable.""And which, mamma, do you think Jacko is?""I have always thought, until lately, that he was one of the better
kind; but I have now a good many doubts whether you enjoy her funny
tricks enough to compensate cook for all the mischief she does.If I
knew any one who wanted a pet monkey, and would treat him kindly, I
should be glad to have him go.screamed Minnie, with a look of horror; "O, mamma, I wouldn't
have one of my pets killed for any thing."Lee thought that would probably be at some time Nannie's fate, but
she wisely said nothing.I don't want to think about such awful
things."The lady cast her eyes over the page, and laughed heartily.Presently
she said, "Here is a very curious anecdote, which I will read you; but
first I must explain to you what a sounding-board is."In old fashioned churches, there used to hang, directly over the
pulpit, a large, round board, like the top of a table, which, it was
thought, assisted the minister's voice to be heard by all the
congregation.I can remember, when I was a child, going to visit my
grandmother, and accompanying her to church, where there was a
sounding-board.I worried, through the whole service, for fear it would
fall on the minister's head and kill him."There was once an eminent clergyman by the name of Casaubon, who kept
in his family a tame monkey, of which he was very fond.This animal,
which was allowed its liberty, liked to follow the minister, when he
went out, but on the Sabbath was usually shut up till his owner was out
of sight, on his way to church."But one Sabbath morning, when the clergyman, taking his sermon under
his arm, went out, the monkey followed him unobserved, and watching the
opportunity while his master was speaking to a gentleman on the steps,
ran up at the back of the pulpit, and jumped upon the sounding-board."Here he gravely seated himself, looking round in a knowing manner on
the congregation, who were greatly amused at so strange a spectacle."The services proceeded as usual, while the monkey, who evidently much
enjoyed the sight of so many people, occasionally peeped over the
sounding-board, to observe the movements of his master, who was
unconscious of his presence."When the sermon commenced, many little forms were convulsed with
laughter, which conduct so shocked the good pastor, that he thought it
his duty to administer a reproof, which he did with considerable action
of his hands and arms."The monkey, who had now become familiar with the scene, imitated every
motion, until at last a scarcely suppressed smile appeared upon the
countenance of most of the audience.This occurred, too, in one of the
most solemn passages in the discourse; and so horrible did the levity
appear to the good minister, that he launched forth into violent rebuke,
every word being enforced by great energy of action."All this time, the little fellow overhead mimicked every movement with
ardor and exactness."The audience, witnessing this apparent competition between the good man
and his monkey, could no longer retain the least appearance of
composure, and burst into roars of laughter, in the midst of which one
of the congregation kindly relieved the horror of the pastor at the
irreverence and impiety of his flock, by pointing out the cause of the
merriment."Casting his eyes upward, the minister could just discern the animal
standing on the end of the sounding-board, and gesturing with all his
might, when he found it difficult to control himself, though highly
exasperated at the occurrence.He gave directions to have the monkey
removed, and sat down to compose himself, and allow his congregation to
recover their equanimity while the order was being obeyed."CHAPTER V.

JACKO IN THE PANTRY.In his frequent visits to the stable, Jacko amused himself by catching
mice that crept out to pick up the corn.The servants, having noticed his skill, thought they would turn it to
good account, and having been troubled with mice in the pantry,
determined to take advantage of the absence of Mrs.Lee on a journey,
and shut the monkey up in it.So, one evening, they took him out of his
comfortable bed, and chained him up in the larder, having removed every
thing except some jam pots, which they thought out of his reach, and
well secured with bladder stretched over the top.Poor Jacko was evidently much astonished, and quite indignant, at this
treatment, but presently consoled himself by jumping into a soup
tureen, where he fell sound asleep, while the mice scampered all over
the place.As soon as it was dawn, the mice retired to their holes.Jacko awoke
shivering with cold, stretched himself, and then, pushing the soup
tureen from the shelf, broke it to pieces.After this achievement, he
began to look about for something to eat, when he spied the jam pots on
the upper shelf."There is something good," he thought, smelling them.His sharp teeth soon worked an entrance, when the treasured jams, plums,
raspberry, strawberry, candied apricots, the pride and care of the cook,
disappeared in an unaccountably short time.At last, his appetite for sweets was satisfied, and coiling his tail in
a corner, he lay quietly awaiting the servant's coming to take him out.Presently he heard the door cautiously open, when the chamber girl gave
a scream of horror as she saw the elegant China dish broken into a
thousand bits, and lying scattered on the floor.She ran in haste to summon Hepsy and the nurse, her heart misgiving her
that this was not the end of the calamity.They easily removed Jacko,
who began already to experience the sad effects of overloading his
stomach, and then found, with alarm and grief, the damage he had done.For several days the monkey did not recover from the effects of his
excess.He was never shut up again in the pantry.Lee returned she blamed the servants for trying such an
experiment in her absence.Jacko was now well, and ready for some new
mischief; and Minnie, who heard a ludicrous account of the story,
laughed till she cried.She repeated it, in great glee, to her father, who looked very grave as
he said, "We think a sea voyage would do the troublesome fellow good;
but you shall have a Canary or a pair of Java sparrows instead.""Don't you know any stories of good monkeys, father?""I don't recollect any at this moment, my dear; but I will see whether I
can find any for you."He opened the book, and then asked,--

"Did you know, Minnie, that almost all monkeys have bags or pouches in
their cheeks, the skin of which is loose, and when empty makes the
animal look wrinkled?""No, sir; I never heard about it."He puts his food in them, and keeps it there
till he wishes to devour it."There are some kinds, too, that have what is called prehensile tails;
that is, tails by which they can hang themselves to the limb of a tree,
and which they use with nearly as much ease as they can their hands.The
facility which this affords them for moving about quickly among the
branches of trees is astonishing.The firmness of the grasp which it
makes is very surprising; for if it winds a single coil around a branch,
it is quite sufficient, not only to support its weight, but to enable it
to swing in such a manner as to gain a fresh hold with its feet.""I'm sure, father," eagerly cried Minnie, "that Jacko has a prehensile
tail, for I have often seen him swing from the ladder which goes up the
hay mow."But here is an
account of an Indian monkey, of a light grayish yellow color, with black
hands and feet.The face is black, with a violet tinge.This is called
Hoonuman, and is much venerated by the Hindoos.They believe it to be
one of the animals into which the souls of their friends pass at death.If one of these monkeys is killed, the murderer is instantly put to
death; and, thus protected, they become a great nuisance, and destroy
great quantities of fruit.But in South America, monkeys are killed by
the natives as game, for the sake of the flesh.Absolute necessity alone
would compel us to eat them.A great naturalist named Humboldt tells us
that their manner of cooking them is especially disgusting.They are
raised a foot from the ground, and bent into a sitting position, in
which they greatly resemble a child, and are roasted in that manner.A
hand and arm of a monkey, roasted in this way, are exhibited in a museum
in Paris.""Monkeys have a curious way of introducing their tails into the fissures
or hollows of trees, for the purpose of hooking out eggs and other
substances.On approaching a spot where there is a supply of food, they
do not alight at once, but take a survey of the neighborhood, a general
cry being kept up by the party."One afternoon, Minnie ran out of breath to the parlor."Mamma," she
exclaimed, "cook says monkeys are real cruel in their families."I suppose, my dear," she responded, "that there is a
difference of disposition among them.I have heard that they are very
fond of their young, and that, when threatened with danger, they mount
them on their back, or clasp them to their breast with great affection."But I saw lately an anecdote of the cruelty of a monkey to his wife,
and if I can find the book, I will read it to you.""There is an animal called the fair monkey, which, though the most
beautiful of its tribe, is gloomy and cruel.One of these, which, from
its extreme beauty and apparent gentleness, was allowed to ramble at
liberty over a ship, soon became a great favorite with the crew, and in
order to make him perfectly happy, as they imagined, they procured him a
wife."For some weeks, he was a devoted husband, and showed her every
attention and respect.He then grew cool, and began to use her with much
cruelty."One day, the crew noticed that he treated her with more kindness than
usual, but did not suspect the wicked scheme he had in mind.At last,
after winning her favor anew, he persuaded her to go aloft with him, and
drew her attention to an object in the distance, when he suddenly gave
her a push, which threw her into the sea."This cruel act seemed to afford him much gratification, for he
descended in high spirits.""I should think they would have punished him," said Minnie, with great
indignation.At any rate, it proves that beauty is by no
means always to be depended upon."Lee then took her sewing, but Minnie plead so earnestly for one
more story, a good long one, that her mother, who loved to gratify her,
complied, and read the account which I shall give you in closing this
chapter on Minnie's pet monkey."A gentleman, returning from India, brought a monkey, which he presented
to his wife.She called it Sprite, and soon became very fond of it."Sprite was very fond of beetles, and also of spiders, and his mistress
used sometimes to hold his chain, lengthened by a string, and make him
run up the curtains, and clear out the cobwebs for the housekeeper."On one occasion, he watched his opportunity, and snatching the chain,
ran off, and was soon seated on the top of a cottage, grinning and
chattering to the assembled crowd of schoolboys, as much as to say,
'Catch me if you can.'He got the whole town in an uproar, but finally
leaped over every thing, dragging his chain after him, and nestled
himself in his own bed, where he lay with his eyes closed, his mouth
open, his sides ready to burst with his running."Another time, the little fellow got loose, but remembering his former
experience, only stole into the shed, where he tried his hand at
cleaning knives.He did not succeed very well in this, however, for the
handle was the part he attempted to polish, and, cutting his fingers, he
relinquished the sport."Resolved not to be defeated, he next set to work to clean the shoes and
boots, a row of which were awaiting the boy.But Sprite, not remembering
all the steps of the performance, first covered the entire shoe, sole
and all, with the blacking, and then emptied the rest of the Day &
Martin into it, nearly filling it with the precious fluid.His coat was
a nice mess for some days after."One morning, when the servants returned to the kitchen, they found
Sprite had taken all the kitchen candlesticks out of the cupboard, and
arranged them on the fender, as he had once seen done.As soon as he
heard the servants returning, he ran to his basket, and tried to look as
though nothing had happened."Sprite was exceedingly fond of a bath.Occasionally a bowl of water was
given him, when he would cunningly try the temperature by putting in his
finger, after which he gradually stepped in, first one foot, then the
other, till he was comfortably seated.Then he took the soap and rubbed
himself all over.Having made a dreadful splashing all around, he jumped
out and ran to the fire, shivering.If any body laughed at him during
this performance, he made threatening gestures, chattering with all his
might to show his displeasure, and sometimes he splashed water all over
them.As he was brought from a
very warm climate, he often suffered exceedingly, in winter, from the
cold."The cooking was done by a large fire on the open hearth, and as his
basket, where he slept, was in one corner of the kitchen, before morning
he frequently awoke shivering and blue.The cook was in the habit of
making the fire, and then returning to her room to finish her toilet."One morning, having lighted the pile of kindlings as usual, she hung on
the tea-kettle and went out, shutting the door carefully behind her."Sprite thought this a fine opportunity to warm himself.He jumped from
his basket, ran to the hearth, and took the lid of the kettle off.Cautiously touching the water with the tip of his finger, he found it
just the right heat for a bath, and sprang in, sitting down, leaving
only his head above the water."This he found exceedingly comfortable for a time; but soon the water
began to grow hot.He rose, but the air outside was so cold, he quickly
sat down again.He did this several times, and would, no doubt, have
been boiled to death, and become a martyr to his own want of pluck and
firmness in action, had it not been for the timely return of the cook,
who, seeing him sitting there almost lifeless, seized him by the head
and pulled him out."He was rolled in blankets, and laid in his basket, where he soon
recovered, and, it is to be hoped, learned a lesson from this hot
experience, not to take a bath when the water is on the fire."When Minnie was nine years of age, she accompanied her parents to a
menagerie, and there, among other animals, she saw a baboon.She was
greatly excited by his curious, uncouth manoeuvres, asking twenty
questions about him, without giving her father time to answer.On their
way home, she inquired,--

"Are baboons one kind of monkeys, father?""Yes, my daughter; and a more disagreeable, disgusting animal I cannot
conceive of.""I hope you are not wishing for a baboon to add to your pets," added her
mother, laughing."I don't believe Jacko would get along with that great fellow at all,"
answered the child."But, father, will you please tell me something
more about the curious animals?"The conversation was here interrupted by seeing that a carriage had
stopped just in front of their own, and that quite a crowd had gathered
about some person who seemed to be hurt.Minnie's sympathies were alive in an instant.She begged her father to
get out, as possibly he might be of some use.The driver stopped of his own accord, and inquired what had happened,
and then they saw that it was a spaniel that was hurt.He had been in
the road, and not getting out of the way quick enough, the wheel had
gone over his body.The young lady who was in the buggy was greatly distressed, from which
Minnie argued that she was kind to animals, and that they should like
her.The owner of the dog held the poor creature in her arms, though it
seemed to be in convulsions, and wept bitterly as she found it must die.Lee, to please his little daughter, waited a few minutes; but he
found her getting so much excited over the suffering animal, he gave
John orders to proceed.During the rest of the drive, she could talk of nothing else, wondering
whether the spaniel was alive now, or whether the young man in the buggy
paid for hurting it.The next day, however, having made up her mind that the poor creature
must be dead, and his sufferings ended, and having given Tiney many
admonitions to keep out of the road when carriages were passing, her
thoughts turned once more to the baboon.Lee found in his library a book which gave a short account of the
animal, which he read to her."The baboon is of the monkey tribe, notwithstanding its long, dog-like
head, flat, compressed cheeks, and strong and projecting teeth.The form
and position of the eyes, combined with the similarity of the arms and
hands, give to these creatures a resemblance to humanity as striking as
it is disgusting.""Then follows an account," the gentleman went on, "of the peculiarities
of different kinds of baboons, which you would not understand.""But can't you tell me something about them yourself, father?""I know very little about the creatures, my dear; but I have read that
they are exceedingly strong, and of a fiery, vicious temper."They can never be wholly tamed, and it is only while restraint of the
severest kind is used, that they can be governed at all.If left to
their own will, their savage nature resumes its sway, and their actions
are cruel, destructive, and disgusting.""I saw the man at the menagerie giving them apples," said Minnie; "but
he did not give them any meat all the time I was there.""No; they subsist exclusively on fruits, seeds, and other vegetable
matter.In the countries where they live, especially near the Cape of
Good Hope, the inhabitants chase them with dogs and guns in order to
destroy them, on account of the ravages they commit in the fields and
gardens.It is said that they make a very obstinate resistance to the
dogs, and often have fierce battles with them; but they greatly fear the
gun."As the baboon grows older, instead of becoming better, his rage
increases, so that the slightest cause will provoke him to terrible
fury.""Why, Minnie, in order to satisfy you, any one must become a walking
encyclopaedia."Why, they must have something to eat, and how are they to get it unless
they go into gardens?""I rather think I should soon convince them they
were not to enter my garden," he said, emphatically."But seriously,
they descend in vast numbers upon the orchards of fruit, destroying, in
a few hours, the work of months, or even of years.In these excursions,
they move on a concerted plan, placing sentinels on commanding spots, to
give notice of the approach of an enemy.As soon as he perceives danger,
the sentinel gives a loud yell, and then the whole troop rush away with
the greatest speed, cramming the fruit which they have gathered into
their cheek pouches."Minnie looked so much disappointed when he ceased speaking, that her
mother said, "I read somewhere an account of a baboon that was named
Kees, who was the best of his kind that I ever heard of.""Yes, that was quite an interesting story, if you can call it to mind,"
said the gentleman, rising."It was in a book of travels in Africa," the lady went on."The
traveller, whose name was Le Vaillant, took Kees through all his
journey, and the creature really made himself very useful.As a
sentinel, he was better than any of the dogs.Indeed, so quick was his
sense of danger, that he often gave notice of the approach of beasts of
prey, when every thing was apparently secure."There was another way in which Kees made himself useful.Whenever they
came across any fruits or roots with which the Hottentots were
unacquainted, they waited to see whether Kees would taste them.If he
threw them down, the traveller concluded they were poisonous or
disagreeable, and left them untasted."Le Vaillant used to hunt, and frequently took Kees with him on these
excursions.The poor fellow understood the preparations making for the
sport, and when his master signified his consent that he should go, he
showed his joy in the most lively manner.On the way, he would dance
about, and then run up into the trees to search for gum, of which he was
very fond."I recall one amusing trick of Kees," said the lady, laughing, "which
pleased me much when I read it.He sometimes found honey in the hollows
of trees, and also a kind of root of which he was very fond, both of
which his master insisted on sharing with him.On such occasions, he
would run away with his treasure, or hide it in his pouches, or eat it
as fast as possible, before Le Vaillant could have time to reach him."These roots were very difficult to pull from the ground.Kees' manner
of doing it was this.He would seize the top of the root with his strong
teeth, and then, planting himself firmly against the sod, drew himself
gradually back, which forced it from the earth.If it proved stubborn,
while he still held it in his teeth he threw himself heels over head,
which gave such a concussion to the root that it never failed to come
out."Another habit that Kees had was very curious.He sometimes grew tired
with the long marches, and then he would jump on the back of one of the
dogs, and oblige it to carry him whole hours.At last the dogs grew
weary of this, and one of them determined not to be pressed into
service.As soon as Kees leaped on
his back, he stood still, and let the train pass without moving from the
spot.Kees sat quiet, determined that the dog should carry him, until
the party were almost out of sight, and then they both ran in great
haste to overtake their master."Kees established a kind of authority over the dogs.They were
accustomed to his voice, and in general obeyed without hesitation the
slightest motions by which he communicated his orders, taking their
places about the tent or carriage, as he directed them.If any of them
came too near him when he was eating, he gave them a box on the ear,
and thus compelled them to retire to a respectful distance.""Why, mother, I think Kees was a very good animal, indeed," said Minnie,
with considerable warmth."I have told you the best traits of his character," she answered,
smiling."He was, greatly to his master's sorrow, an incurable thief.He
could not be left alone for a moment with any kind of food.He
understood perfectly how to loose the strings of a basket, or to take
the cork from a bottle.He was very fond of milk, and would drink it
whenever he had a chance.He was whipped repeatedly for these
misdemeanors, but the punishment did him no good."Le Vaillant was accustomed to have eggs for his breakfast; but his
servants complained one morning there were none to be had.Whenever any
thing was amiss, the fault was always laid to Kees, who, indeed,
generally deserved it."The next morning, hearing the cackling of a hen, he started for the
place; but found Kees had been before him, and nothing remained but the
broken shell.Having caught him in his pilfering, his master gave him a
severe beating; but he was soon at his old habit again, and the
gentleman was obliged to train one of his dogs to run for the egg as
soon as it was laid, before he could enjoy his favorite repast."One day, Le Vaillant was eating his dinner, when he heard the voice of
a bird, with which he was not acquainted.Leaving the beans he had
carefully prepared for himself on his plate, he seized his gun, and ran
out of the tent.In a short time he returned, with the bird in his hand,
but found not a bean left, and Kees missing."When he had been stealing, the baboon often staid out of sight for some
hours; but, this time, he hid himself for several days.They searched
every where for him, but in vain, till his master feared he had really
deserted them.On the third day, one of the men, who had gone to a
distance for water, saw him hiding in a tree.Le Vaillant went out and
spoke to him, but he knew he had deserved punishment, and he would not
come down; so that, at last, his master had to go up the tree and take
him.""No; he was forgiven that time, as he seemed so penitent.There is only
one thing more I can remember about him.An officer who was visiting Le
Vaillant, wishing to try the affection of the baboon for his master,
pretended to strike him.Kees flew into a violent rage, and from that
time could never endure the sight of the officer.If he only saw him at
a distance, he ground his teeth, and used every endeavor to fly at him;
and had he not been chained, he would speedily have revenged the
insult."*       *       *       *       *

    "Nature is man's best teacher.She unfolds
    Her treasures to his search, unseals his eye,
    Illumes his mind, and purifies his heart,--
    An influence breathes from all the sights and sounds
    Of her existence; she is wisdom's self."*       *       *       *       *

    "There's not a plant that springeth
      But bears some good to earth;
    There's not a life but bringeth
      Its store of harmless mirth;
    The dusty wayside clover
      Has honey in her cells,--
    The wild bee, humming over,
      Her tale of pleasure tells.The osiers, o'er the fountain,
      Keep cool the water's breast,
    And on the roughest mountain
      The softest moss is pressed.Thus holy Nature teaches
      The worth of blessings small;
    That Love pervades, and reaches,
      And forms the bliss of all."LESLIE'S JUVENILE SERIES.I. THE MOTHERLESS CHILDREN.
   "HOWARD AND HIS TEACHER.
   "JACK, THE CHIMNEY SWEEPER.I. TRYING TO BE USEFUL.
   "LITTLE AGNES.
   "I'LL TRY.
   "BY

                      MRS.MADELINE LESLIE,
  AUTHOR OF "THE LESLIE STORIES," "TIM, THE SCISSORS-GRINDER,"
                              ETC.BOSTON:
                        LEE AND SHEPARD,
              SUCCESSORS TO PHILLIPS, SAMPSON & CO.MINNIE'S PET PARROT.BY

                      MRS.MADELINE LESLIE,
  AUTHOR OF "THE LESLIE STORIES," "TIM, THE SCISSORS-GRINDER,"
                              ETC.BOSTON:
                        LEE AND SHEPARD,
              SUCCESSORS TO PHILLIPS, SAMPSON & CO.BY

                      MRS.MADELINE LESLIE,
  AUTHOR OF "THE LESLIE STORIES," "TIM, THE SCISSORS-GRINDER,"
                              ETC.BOSTON:
                        LEE AND SHEPARD,
              SUCCESSORS TO PHILLIPS, SAMPSON & CO.MINNIE'S PET LAMB.BY

                      MRS.MADELINE LESLIE,
  AUTHOR OF "THE LESLIE STORIES," "TIM, THE SCISSORS-GRINDER,"
                              ETC.BOSTON:
                        LEE AND SHEPARD,
              SUCCESSORS TO PHILLIPS, SAMPSON & CO.BY

                      MRS.MADELINE LESLIE,
  AUTHOR OF "THE LESLIE STORIES," "TIM, THE SCISSORS-GRINDER,"
                              ETC.BOSTON:
                        LEE AND SHEPARD,
              SUCCESSORS TO PHILLIPS, SAMPSON & CO.Transcriber's Note

The following typographical errors were corrected:

Page  Error
73    "good morning," changed to 'good morning,'
112   pet monkey."{89}

But the end of rebellion was not yet in sight.Two more encounters
remain to be described.The first of these occurred at a place known
as Moore's Corners, near the Vermont border.After the collapse at St
Charles a number of _Patriote_ refugees had gathered at the small town
of Swanton, a few miles south of Missisquoi Bay, on the American side
of the boundary-line.Among them were Dr Cyrile Cote and Edouard
Rodier, both members of the Lower Canada Assembly; Ludger Duvernay, a
member of the Assembly and editor of _La Minerve_; Dr Kimber, one of
the ringleaders in the rescue of Demaray and Davignon; and Robert Shore
Milnes Bouchette, the descendant of a French-Canadian family long
conspicuous for its loyalty and its services to the state.Bouchette's
grandfather had been instrumental in effecting the escape of Sir Guy
Carleton from Montreal in 1775, when that place was threatened by the
forces of Montgomery.The grandson's social tastes and affiliations
might have led one to expect that he would have been found in the ranks
of the loyalists; but the arbitrary policy of the Russell Resolutions
had driven him into the arms of the extreme _Patriotes_.Arrested for
disloyalty at the outbreak of {90} the rebellion, he had been admitted
to bail and had escaped.These men, under the belief that the
habitants would rise and join them, determined upon an armed invasion
of Canada.Possibly they believed also that Wolfred Nelson was still
holding out.Papineau, it was said, had reported that 'the victor of
St Denis' was entrenched with a considerable force at St Cesaire on the
Yamaska.They therefore collected arms and ammunition, sent emissaries
through the parishes to the north to rouse the _Patriotes_, and on
December 6, flying some colours which had been worked for them by the
enthusiastic ladies of Swanton, they crossed the Canadian border, about
two hundred strong.They had two field-pieces and a supply of muskets
and ammunition for those whom they expected to join the party on
Canadian soil.Hardly had the invaders crossed the border when they encountered at
Moore's Corners a body of the Missisquoi Volunteers, under the command
of Captain Kemp, who were acting as escort to a convoy of arms and
ammunition.Having received warning of the coming of the insurgents,
Kemp had sent out messengers through the countryside to rouse the
loyalist {91} population.To these as they arrived he served out the
muskets in his wagons.And when the rebels appeared, about eight
o'clock at night, he had a force at his disposal of at least three
hundred men, all well armed.There is reason for believing that Kemp might have succeeded in
ambushing the advancing force, had not some of his men, untrained
volunteers with muskets in their hands for the first time, opened fire
prematurely.The rebels returned the fire, and a fusillade continued
for ten or fifteen minutes.But the rebels, on perceiving that they
had met a superior force, retired in great haste, leaving behind them
one dead and two wounded.One of the wounded was Bouchette, who had
been in command of the advance-guard.The rebels abandoned also their
two field-pieces, about forty stand of arms, five kegs of gunpowder,
and six boxes of ball-cartridge, as well as two standards.Among the
loyalists there were no casualties whatever.Only three of the rebels
were taken prisoner besides the two wounded, a fact which Kemp
explained by several factors--the undisciplined state of the loyalists,
the darkness of the night, the vicinity of woods, and the proximity of
the boundary-line, {92} beyond which he did not allow the pursuit to
go.The 'battle' of Moore's Corners was in truth an excellent farce;
but there is no doubt that it prevented what might have been a more
serious encounter had the rebel column reached the neighbourhood of St
Johns, where many of the _Patriotes_ were in readiness to join them.A few days later, in a part of the province some distance removed from
the Richelieu river and the Vermont border, there occurred another
collision, perhaps the most formidable of the whole rebellion.This
was at the village of St Eustache, in the county of Two Mountains,
about eighteen miles north-west of Montreal.The county of Two
Mountains had long been known as a stronghold of the extreme
_Patriotes_.The local member, W. H. Scott, was a supporter of
Papineau, and had a large and enthusiastic following.He was not,
however, a leader in the troubles that ensued.The chief organizer of
revolt in St Eustache and the surrounding country was a mysterious
adventurer named Amury Girod, who arrived in St Eustache toward the end
of November with credentials, it would seem from Papineau, assigning to
him the task of superintending the _Patriote_ cause {93} in the north.He is variously described as having
been a Swiss, an Alsatian, and a native of Louisiana.According to his
own statement, he had been at one time a lieutenant-colonel of cavalry
in Mexico.He was well educated, could speak fluently several
languages, had a bold and plausible manner, and succeeded in imposing,
not only upon the _Patriote_ leaders, but upon the people of St
Eustache.He found a capable and dauntless supporter in Dr J. O.
Chenier, the young physician of the village.Chenier was one of the
few leaders of the revolt whose courage challenges admiration; and it
is fitting that to-day a monument, bearing the simple inscription
CHENIER, should stand in the Place Viger in Montreal, among the people
for whom, though misguidedly and recklessly, he laid down his life.To St Eustache, on Sunday, November 26, came the news of Wolfred
Nelson's victory at St Denis.On Monday and Tuesday bands of
_Patriotes_ went about the countryside, terrorizing and disarming the
loyalists and compelling the faint-hearted to join in the rising.On
Wednesday night the rebels gathered to the number of about four hundred
{94} in St Eustache, and got noisily drunk (_s'y enivrerent
bruyamment_).They then proceeded, under the command of Girod and
Chenier, to the Indian mission settlement at the Lake of Two Mountains.Here they broke into the government stores and possessed themselves of
some guns and ammunition.They next made themselves unwelcome to the
superior of the mission, the Abbe Dufresne, and, in spite of his
protestations, carried off from the mission-house a three-pounder gun.On their return to St Eustache they forcibly entered the convent which
had been lately completed, though it was not yet occupied, and camped
there.The loyalists who were forced to flee from the village carried the news
of these proceedings to Montreal; but Sir John Colborne was unwilling
to take any steps to subdue the _Patriotes_ of St Eustache until the
insurrection on the Richelieu had been thoroughly crushed.All he did
was to send a detachment of volunteers to guard the Bord a Plouffe
bridge at the northern end of the island of Montreal.On Sunday, December 3, word reached St Eustache of the defeat of the
insurgents at St Charles.This had a moderating influence on many of
the _Patriotes_.All week the Abbe {95} Paquin, parish priest of St
Eustache, had been urging the insurgents to go back quietly to their
homes.He begged Chenier to cease
his revolutionary conduct.Chenier, however, was immovable.He
refused to believe that the rebels at St Charles had been dispersed,
and announced his determination to die with arms in his hands rather
than surrender.'You might as well try to seize the moon with your
teeth,' he exclaimed, 'as to try to shake my resolve.'The events of the days that followed cannot be chronicled in detail.When the Abbe Paquin and his vicar Deseves sought to leave the parish,
Girod and Chenier virtually placed them under arrest.The abbe did not
mince matters with Chenier.'I accuse you before God and man,' he
said, 'of being the author of these misfortunes.'When some of the
habitants came to him complaining that they had been forced against
their will to join the rebels, he reminded them of the English proverb:
'You may lead a horse to the water, but you cannot make him drink.'Unfortunately, the Abbe Paquin's good influence was counteracted by
that of the Abbe Chartier, the cure of the neighbouring village of St
{96} Benoit, a rare case of an ecclesiastic lending his support to the
rebel movement, in direct contravention of the orders of his superiors.On several occasions the Abbe Chartier came over to St Eustache and
delivered inflammatory addresses to the rebel levies.The vicar Deseves has left us a vivid picture of the life which the
rebels led.No attempt was made to drill them or to exercise
discipline.He continually saw them,
he says, passing through the village in knots of five or six, carrying
rusty guns out of order, smoking short black pipes, and wearing blue
_tuques_ which hung half-way down their backs, clothes of _etoffe du
pays_, and leather mittens.They helped themselves to all the strong
drink they could lay their hands on, and their gait showed the
influence of their potations.Their chief aim in life seemed to be to
steal, to drink, to eat, to dance, and to quarrel.With regard to the
morrow, they lived in a fool's paradise.They seem to have believed
that the troops would not dare to come out to meet them, and that when
their leaders should give the word they would advance on Montreal and
take it without difficulty.Their numbers during this period showed a
good deal of {97} fluctuation.Ultimately Girod succeeded in gathering
about him nearly a thousand men.Not all these, however, were armed;
according to Deseves a great many of them had no weapons but sticks and
stones.By December 13 Sir John Colborne was ready to move.He had provided
himself with a force strong enough to crush an enemy several times more
numerous than the insurgents led by Girod and Chenier.His column was
composed of the 1st Royals, the 32nd regiment, the 83rd regiment, the
Montreal Volunteer Rifles, Globensky and Leclerc's Volunteers, a strong
force of cavalry--in all, over two thousand men, supported by eight
pieces of field artillery and well supplied with provision and
ammunition transport.The troops bivouacked for the night at St Martin, and advanced on the
morning of the 14th.The main body crossed the Mille Isles river on
the ice about four miles to the east of St Eustache, and then moved
westward along the St Rose road.A detachment of Globensky's
Volunteers, however, followed the direct road to St Eustache, and came
out on the south side of the river opposite the village, in full view
of the rebels.Chenier, at the head of a hundred and fifty men,
crossed the {98} ice, and was on the point of coming to close quarters
with the volunteers when the main body of the loyalists appeared to the
east.Thereupon Chenier and his men beat a hasty retreat, and made
hurried preparations for defending the village.The church, the
convent, the presbytery, and the house of the member of the Assembly,
Scott, were all occupied and barricaded.It was about the church that
the fiercest fighting took place.The artillery was brought to bear on
the building; but the stout masonry resisted the battering of the
cannon balls, and is still standing, dinted and scarred.Some of the
Royals then got into the presbytery and set fire to it.Under cover of
the smoke the rest of the regiment then doubled up the street to the
church door.Gaining access through the sacristy, they lit a fire
behind the altar.'The firing from the church windows then ceased,'
wrote one of the officers afterwards, 'and the rebels began running out
from some low windows, apparently of a crypt or cellar.Our men formed
up on one side of the church, and the 32nd and 83rd on the other.Some
of the rebels ran out and fired at the troops, then threw down their
arms and begged for quarter.Our officers tried to save the {99}
Canadians, but the men shouted "Remember Jack Weir," and numbers of
these poor deluded fellows were shot down.'He had jumped from a window of the
Blessed Virgin's chapel and was making for the cemetery.How many fell
with him it is difficult to say.It was said that seventy rebels were
killed, and a number of charred bodies were found afterwards in the
ruins of the church.The casualties among the troops were slight, one
killed and nine wounded.One of the wounded was Major Gugy, who here
distinguished himself by his bravery and kind-heartedness, as he had
done in the St Charles expedition.A good
many, indeed, had fled from the village on the first appearance of the
troops.Among these were some who had played a conspicuous part in
fomenting trouble.The Abbe Chartier of St Benoit, instead of waiting
to administer the last rites to the dying, beat a feverish retreat and
eventually escaped to the United States.The Church placed on him its
interdict, and he never again set foot on Canadian soil.The behaviour
of the adventurer Girod, the 'general' of the rebel force, was
especially {100} reprehensible.When he had posted his men in the
church and the surrounding buildings, he mounted a horse and fled
toward St Benoit.At a tavern where he stopped to get a stiff draught
of spirits he announced that the rebels had been victorious and that he
was seeking reinforcements with which to crush the troops completely.Then, finding that the cordon was
tightening around him, he blew out his brains with a revolver.Thus
ended a life which was not without its share of romance and mystery.On the night of the 14th the troops encamped near the desolate village
of St Eustache, a large part of which had unfortunately been given over
to the flames during the engagement.In the morning the column set out
for St Benoit.Sir John Colborne had threatened that if a single shot
were fired from St Benoit the village would be given over to fire and
pillage.But when the troops arrived there they found awaiting them
about two hundred and fifty men bearing white flags.All the villagers
laid down their arms and made an unqualified submission.And it is a
matter for profound regret that, notwithstanding this, the greater part
of the village {101} was burned to the ground.Sir John Colborne has
been severely censured for this occurrence, and not without reason.Nothing is more certain, of course, than that he did not order it.It
seems to have been the work of the loyalist volunteers, who had without
doubt suffered much at the hands of the rebels.'The irregular troops
employed,' wrote one of the British officers, 'were not to be
controlled, and were in every case, I believe, the instrument of the
infliction.'Far too much burning and pillaging went on, indeed, in
the wake of the rebellion.'You know,' wrote an inhabitant of St
Benoit to a friend in Montreal, 'where the younger Arnoldi got his
supply of butter, or where another got the guitar he carried back with
him from the expedition about the neck.'And it is probable that the
British officers, and perhaps Sir John Colborne himself, winked at some
things which they could not officially recognize.At any rate, it is
impossible to acquit Colborne of all responsibility for the unsoldierly
conduct of the men under his command.It is usual to regard the rebellion of 1837 in Lower Canada as no less
a fiasco than its counterpart in Upper Canada.There is no doubt that
it was hopeless from the outset.{102} It was an impromptu movement,
based upon a sudden resolution rather than on a well-reasoned plan of
action.Most of the leaders--Wolfred Nelson, Thomas Storrow Brown,
Robert Bouchette, and Amury Girod--were strangers to the men under
their command; and none of them, save Chenier, seemed disposed to fight
to the last ditch.The movement at its inception fell under the
official ban of the Church; and only two priests, the cures of St
Charles and St Benoit, showed it any encouragement.The actual
rebellion was confined to the county of Two Mountains and the valley of
the Richelieu.The districts of Quebec and Three Rivers were quiet as
the grave--with the exception, perhaps, of an occasional village like
Montmagny, where Etienne P. Tache, afterwards a colleague of Sir John
Macdonald and prime minister of Canada, was the centre of a local
agitation.Yet it is easy to see that the rebellion might have been
much more serious.But for the loyal attitude of the ecclesiastical
authorities, and the efforts of many clear-headed parish priests like
the Abbe Paquin of St Eustache, the revolutionary leaders might have
been able to consummate their plans, and Sir John Colborne, with the
small number of troops at {103} his disposal, might have found it
difficult to keep the flag flying.The rebellion was easily snuffed
out because the majority of the French-Canadian people, in obedience to
the voice of their Church, set their faces against it.{104}

CHAPTER X

THE LORD HIGH COMMISSIONER

The rebellions in Upper and Lower Canada profoundly affected public
opinion in the mother country.That the first year of the reign of the
young Queen Victoria should have been marred by an armed revolt in an
important British colony shocked the sensibilities of Englishmen and
forced the country and the government to realize that the grievances of
the Canadian Reformers were more serious than they had imagined.It
was clear that the old system of alternating concession and repression
had broken down and that the situation demanded radical action.The
Melbourne government suspended the constitution of Lower Canada for
three years, and appointed the Earl of Durham as Lord High
Commissioner, with very full powers, to go out to Canada to investigate
the grievances and to report on a remedy.John George Lambton, the first Earl of {105} Durham, was a wealthy and
powerful Whig nobleman, of decided Liberal, if not Radical, leanings.He had taken no small part in the framing of the Reform Bill of 1832,
and at one time he had been hailed by the English Radicals or Chartists
as their coming leader.It was therefore expected that he would be
decently sympathetic with the Reform movements in the Canadas.At the
same time, Melbourne and his ministers were only too glad to ship him
out of the country.There was no question of his great ability and
statesmanlike outlook.But his advanced Radical views were distasteful
to many of his former colleagues; and his arrogant manners, his lack of
tact, and his love of pomp and circumstance made him unpopular even in
his own party.The truth is that he was an excellent leader to work
under, but a bad colleague to work with.The Melbourne government had
first got rid of him by sending him to St Petersburg as ambassador
extraordinary; and then, on his return from St Petersburg, they got him
out of the way by sending him to Canada.He was at first loath to go,
mainly on the ground of ill health; but at the personal intercession of
the young queen he accepted the commission offered him.It was {106}
an evil day for himself, but a good day for Canada, when he did so.Durham arrived in Quebec, with an almost regal retinue, on May 28,
1838.Gosford, who had remained in Canada throughout the rebellion,
had gone home at the end of February; and the administration had been
taken over by Sir John Colborne, the commander-in-chief of the forces.As soon as the news of the suspension of the constitution reached Lower
Canada, Sir John Colborne appointed a provisional special council of
twenty-two members, half of them French and half of them English, to
administer the affairs of the province until Lord Durham should arrive.The first official act of Lord Durham in the colony swept this council
out of existence.'His Excellency believes,' the members of the
council were told, 'that it is as much the interest of you all, as for
the advantage of his own mission, that his administrative conduct
should be free from all suspicions of political influence or party
feeling; that it should rest on his own undivided responsibility, and
that when he quits the Province, he should leave none of its permanent
residents in any way committed by the acts which his Government may
have {107} found it necessary to perform, during the temporary
suspension of the Constitution.'In its place he appointed a small
council of five members, all but one from his own staff.The one
Canadian called to this council was Dominick Daly, the provincial
secretary, whom Colborne recommended as being unidentified with any
political party.The first great problem with which Lord Durham and his council had to
deal was the question of the political prisoners, numbers of whom were
still lying in the prisons of Montreal.Sir John Colborne had not
attempted to decide what should be done with them, preferring to shift
this responsibility upon Lord Durham.It would probably have been much
better to have settled the matter before Lord Durham set foot in the
colony, so that his mission might not have been handicapped at the
outset with so thorny a problem; but it is easy to follow Colborne's
reasoning.In the first place, he did not bring the prisoners to trial
because no Lower-Canadian jury at that time could have been induced to
convict them, a reasonable inference from the fact that the murder of
Weir had gone unavenged, even as the murderers of Chartrand were to be
acquitted {108} by a jury a few months later.In the second place,
Colborne had not the power to deal with the prisoners summarily.Moreover, most of the rebel leaders had not been captured.The only
three prisoners of much importance were Wolfred Nelson, Robert
Bouchette, and Bonaventure Viger.The rest of the _Patriote_ leaders
were scattered far and wide.Chenier and Girod lay beneath the
springing sod; Papineau, O'Callaghan, Storrow Brown, Robert Nelson,
Cote, and Rodier were across the American border; Morin had just come
out of his hiding-place in the Canadian backwoods; and LaFontaine,
after vainly endeavouring, on the outbreak of rebellion, to get Gosford
to call together the legislature of Lower Canada, had gone abroad.The
future course of the rebels who had fled to the United States was still
doubtful; there was a strong probability that they might create further
disturbances.And, while the situation was still unsettled, Colborne
thought it better to leave the fate of the prisoners to be decided by
Durham.Durham's instructions were to temper justice with mercy.His own
instincts were apparently in favour of a complete amnesty; but he
supposed it necessary to make an {109} example of some of the leaders.After earnest deliberation and consultation with his council, and
especially with his chief secretary, Charles Buller, the friend and
pupil of Thomas Carlyle, Durham determined to grant to the rebels a
general amnesty, with only twenty-four exceptions.Eight of the men
excepted were political prisoners who had been prominent in the revolt
and who had confessed their guilt and had thrown themselves on the
mercy of the Lord High Commissioner; the remaining sixteen were rebel
leaders who had fled from the country.Durham gave orders that the
eight prisoners should be transported to the Bermudas during the
queen's pleasure.The sixteen refugees were forbidden to return to
Canada under penalty of death without benefit of clergy.No one can fail to see that this course was dictated by the humanest
considerations.A criminal rebellion had terminated without the
shedding judicially of a drop of blood.Lord Durham even took care
that the eight prisoners should not be sent to a convict colony.The
only criticism directed against his course in Canada was on the ground
of its excessive lenity.Wolfred Nelson and Robert Bouchette had
certainly suffered a milder fate {110} than that of Samuel Lount and
Peter Matthews, who had been hanged in Upper Canada for rebellion.Yet
when the news of Durham's action reached England, it was immediately
attacked as arbitrary and unconstitutional.The assault was opened by
Lord Brougham, a bitter personal enemy of Lord Durham.In the House of
Lords Brougham contended that Durham had had no right to pass sentence
on the rebel prisoners and refugees when they had not been brought to
trial; and that he had no right to order them to be transported to, and
held in, Bermuda, where his authority did not run.In this attitude he
was supported by the Duke of Wellington, the leader of the Tory party.Wellington's name is one which is usually remembered with honour in the
history of the British Empire; but on this occasion he did not think it
beneath him to play fast and loose with the interests of Canada for the
sake of a paltry party advantage.It would have been easy for him to
recognize the humanity of Durham's policy, and to join with the
government in legislating away any technical illegalities that may have
existed in Durham's ordinance; but Wellington could not resist the
temptation to embarrass the Whig {111} administration, regardless of
the injury which he might be doing to the sorely tried people of Canada.The Melbourne administration, which had sent Durham to Canada, might
have been expected to stand behind him when he was attacked.Lord John
Russell, indeed, rose in the House of Commons and made a thoroughgoing
defence of Durham's policy as 'wise and statesmanlike.'But he alone
of the ministers gave Durham loyal support.In the House of Lords
Melbourne contented himself with a feeble defence of Durham and then
capitulated to the Opposition.Nothing would have been easier for him
than to introduce a bill making valid whatever may have been irregular
in Durham's ordinance; but instead of that he disallowed the ordinance,
and passed an Act of Indemnity for all those who had had a part in
carrying it out.Without waiting to hear Durham's defence, or to
consult with him as to the course which should be followed, the Cabinet
weakly surrendered to an attack of his personal enemies.Durham was
betrayed in the house of his friends.The news of the disallowance of the ordinance first reached Durham
through the columns of an American newspaper.{112} Immediately his
mind was made up.Without waiting for any official notification, he
sent in his resignation to the colonial secretary.He was quite
satisfied himself that he had not exceeded his powers.'Until I
learn,' he wrote, 'from some one better versed in the English language
that despotism means anything but such an aggregation of the supreme
executive and legislative authority in a single head, as was
deliberately made by Parliament in the Act which constituted my powers,
I shall not blush to hear that I have exercised a despotism; I shall
feel anxious only to know how well and wisely I have used, or rather
exhibited an intention of using, my great powers.'But he felt that if
he could expect no firm support from the Melbourne government, his
usefulness was gone, and resignation was the only course open to him.He wrote, however, that he intended to remain in Canada until he had
completed the inquiries he had instituted.In view of the 'lamentable
want of information' with regard to Canada which existed in the
Imperial parliament, he confessed that he 'would take shame to himself
if he left his inquiry incomplete.'A few days before Durham left Canada he took the unusual and, under
ordinary {113} circumstances, unconstitutional course of issuing a
proclamation, in which he explained the reasons for his resignation,
and in effect appealed from the action of the home government to
Canadian public opinion.It was this proclamation which drew down on
him from _The Times_ the nickname of 'Lord High Seditioner.'The
wisdom of the proclamation was afterwards, however, vigorously defended
by Charles Duller.The general unpopularity of the British government,
Duller explained, was such in Canada that a little more or less could
not affect it; whereas it was a matter of vital importance that the
angry and suspicious colonists should find one British statesman with
whom they could agree.The real justification of the proclamation lay
in the magical effect which it had upon the public temper.The news
that the ordinance had been disallowed, and that the whole question of
the political prisoners had been once more thrown into the melting-pot,
had greatly excited the public mind; and the proclamation fell like oil
upon the troubled waters.'No disorder, no increase of disaffection
ensued; on the contrary, all parties in the Province expressed a
revival of confidence.'Lord Durham left Quebec on November 1, {114} 1838.'It was a sad day
and a sad departure,' wrote Buller.The
spectators filled every window and every house-top, and, though every
hat was raised as we passed, a deep silence marked the general grief
for Lord Durham's departure.'Durham had been in Canada only five
short months.Yet in that time he had gained a knowledge of, and an
insight into, the Canadian situation such as no other governor of
Canada had possessed.The permanent monument of that insight is, of
course, his famous _Report on the Affairs of British North America_,
issued by the Colonial Office in 1839.This is no place to write at
length about that greatest of all documents ever published with regard
to colonial affairs.In the _Report_
Lord Durham rightly diagnosed the evils of the body politic in Canada.He traced the rebellion to two causes, in the main: first, racial
feeling; and, secondly, that 'union of representative and irresponsible
government' of which he said that it was difficult to understand how
any English statesman ever imagined that such a system would work.And
yet one of the two chief remedies which he recommended seemed like a
death sentence passed on the French in Canada.{115} This was the
proposal for the legislative union of Upper and Lower Canada with the
avowed object of anglicizing by absorption the French population.This
suggestion certainly did not promote racial peace.The other proposal,
that of granting to the Canadian people responsible government in all
matters not infringing'strictly imperial interests,' blazed the trail
leading out of the swamps of pre-rebellion politics.In one respect only is Lord Durham's _Report_ seriously faulty: it is
not fair to French Canadians.'They cling,' wrote Durham, 'to ancient
prejudices, ancient customs, and ancient laws, not from any strong
sense of their beneficial effects, but with the unreasoning tenacity of
an uneducated and unprogressive people.'To their racial and
nationalist ambitions he was far from favourable.'The error,' he
contended, 'to which the present contest is to be attributed is the
vain endeavour to preserve a French-Canadian nationality in the midst
of Anglo-American colonies and states'; and he quoted with seeming
approval the statement of one of the Lower Canada 'Bureaucrats' that
'Lower Canada must be _English_, at the expense, if necessary, of not
being _British_.'His primary {116} object in recommending the union
of the two Canadas, to place the French in a minority in the united
province, was surely a mistaken policy.Lord Elgin, a far wiser statesman, who completed Durham's
work by introducing the substance of responsible government which the
_Report_ recommended, decidedly opposed anything in the nature of a
gradual crusade against French-Canadian nationalism.'I for one,' he
wrote, 'am deeply convinced of the impolicy of all such attempts to
denationalize the French.Generally speaking, they produce the
opposite effect, causing the flame of national prejudice and animosity
to burn more fiercely.But suppose them to be successful, what would
be the result?You may perhaps _Americanize_, but, depend upon it, by
methods of this description you will never _Anglicize_ the French
inhabitants of the province.Let them feel, on the other hand, that
their religion, their habits, their prepossessions, their prejudices if
you will, are more considered and respected here than in other portions
of this vast continent, and who will venture to say that the last hand
which waves the British flag on American ground may not be that of a
French Canadian?'{117}

CHAPTER XI

THE SECOND REBELLION

The frigate _Inconstant_, with Lord Durham on board, was not two days
out from Quebec when rebellion broke out anew in Lower Canada.This
second rebellion, however, was not caused by Lord Durham's departure,
but was the result of a long course of agitation which had been carried
on along the American border throughout the months of Lord Durham's
regime.As early as February 1838 numbers of Canadian refugees had gathered in
the towns on the American side of the boundary-line in the
neighbourhood of Lake Champlain.They were shown much sympathy and
encouragement by the Americans, and seem to have laboured under the
delusion that the American government would come to their assistance.A proclamation signed by Robert Nelson, a brother of Wolfred Nelson,
declared the independence of Canada under a {118} 'provisional
government' of which Robert Nelson was president and Dr Cote a member.The identity of the other members is a mystery.Papineau seems to have
had some dealings with Nelson and Cote, and to have dallied with the
idea of throwing in his lot with them; but he soon broke off
negotiations.'Papineau,' wrote Robert Nelson, 'has abandoned us, and
this through selfish and family motives regarding the seigniories, and
inveterate love of the old French bad laws.'There is reason to
believe, however, that Papineau had been in communication with the
authorities at Washington, and that his desertion of Robert Nelson and
Cote was in reality due to his discovery that President Van Buren was
not ready to depart from his attitude of neutrality.On February 28, 1838, Robert Nelson and Cote had crossed the border
with an armed force of French-Canadian refugees and three small
field-pieces.Their plan had contemplated the capture of Montreal and
a junction with another invading force at Three Rivers.But on finding
their way barred by the Missisquoi militia, they had beat a hasty
retreat to the border, without fighting; and had there been disarmed by
the American {119} troops under General Wool, a brave and able officer
who had fought with conspicuous gallantry at the battle of Queenston
Heights in 1812.During the summer months, however, the refugees had continued to lay
plans for an insurrection in Lower Canada.Emissaries had been
constantly moving among the parishes north of the New York and Vermont
frontiers, promising the _Patriotes_ arms and supplies and men from the
United States.And when November
came large bodies of disaffected habitants gathered at St Ours, St
Charles, St Michel, L'Acadie, Chateauguay, and Beauharnois.They had
apparently been led to expect that they would be met at some of these
places by American sympathizers with arms and supplies.No such aid
being found at the rendezvous, many returned to their homes.But some
persevered in the movement, and made their way with packs on their
backs to Napierville, a town fifteen miles north of the boundary-line,
which had been designated as the rebel headquarters.Meanwhile, Robert Nelson had moved northward to Napierville from the
American side of the border with a small band of refugees.{120} Among
these were two French officers, named Hindenlang and Touvrey, who had
been inveigled into joining the expedition.Hindenlang, who afterwards
paid for his folly with his life, has left an interesting account of
what happened.He and Touvrey joined Nelson at St Albans, on the west
side of Lake Champlain.With two hundred and fifty muskets, which had
been placed in a boat by an American sympathizer, they dropped down the
river to the Canadian border.There were five in the party--Nelson and
the two French officers, the guide, and the boatman.Nelson had given
Hindenlang to understand that the habitants had risen and that he would
be greeted at the Canadian border by a large force of enthusiastic
recruits.'There was not a
single man to receive the famous President of the _Provisional
Government_; and it was only after a full hour's search, and much
trouble, [that] the guide returned with five or six men to land the
arms.'On the morning of November 4 the party arrived at Napierville.Here Hindenlang found Dr Cote already at the head of two or three
hundred men.A crowd speedily gathered, and Robert Nelson was
proclaimed 'President of the Republic of {121} Lower Canada.'Hindenlang and Touvrey were presented to the crowd; and to his great
astonishment Hindenlang was informed that his rank in the rebel force
was that of brigadier-general.The first two or three days were spent in hastening the arrival of
reinforcements and in gathering arms.By the 7th Nelson had collected
a force of about twenty-five hundred men, whom Hindenlang told off in
companies and divisions.Most of the rebels were armed with pitchforks
and pikes.An attempt had been made two days earlier, on a Sunday, to
obtain arms, ammunition, and stores from the houses of the Indians of
Caughnawaga while they were at church; but a squaw in search of her cow
had discovered the raiders and had given the alarm, with the result
that the Indians, seizing muskets and tomahawks, had repelled the
attack and taken seventy prisoners.On November 5 Nelson sent Cote with a force of four or five hundred men
south to Rouse's Point, on the boundary-line, to secure more arms and
ammunition from the American sympathizers.On his way south Cote
encountered a picket of a company of loyalist volunteers stationed at
Lacolle, and drove it {122} in.On his return journey, however, he met
with greater opposition.The company at Lacolle had been reinforced in
the meantime by several companies of loyalist militia from Hemmingford.As the rebels appeared the loyalist militia attacked them; and after a
brisk skirmish, which lasted from twenty to twenty-five minutes, drove
them from the field.Without further ado the rebels fled across the
border, leaving behind them eleven dead and a number of prisoners, as
well as a six-pounder gun, a large number of muskets of the type used
in the United States army, a keg of powder, a quantity of
ball-cartridge, and a great many pikes.Of the provincial troops two
were killed and one was severely wounded.The defeat of Cote and his men at Lacolle meant that Nelson's line of
communications with his base on the American frontier was cut.At the
same time he received word that Sir John Colborne was advancing on
Napierville from Laprairie with a strong force of regulars and
volunteers.Under these circumstances he determined to fall back on
Odelltown, just north of the border.He had with him about a thousand
men, eight hundred of whom were armed with muskets.{123} He arrived
at Odelltown on the morning of November 9, to find it occupied by about
two hundred loyal militia, under the command of the inspecting
field-officer of the district, Lieutenant-Colonel Taylor.He had no
difficulty in driving in the loyalist outposts; but the village itself
proved a harder nut to crack.Taylor had concentrated his little force
at the Methodist church, and he controlled the road leading to it by
means of the six-pounder which had been taken from the rebels three
days before at Lacolle.The insurgents extended through the fields to
the right and left, and opened a vigorous fire on the church from
behind some barns; but many of the men seem to have kept out of range.'The greater part of the Canadians kept out of shot,' wrote Hindenlang;
'threw themselves on their knees, with their faces buried in the snow,
praying to God, and remaining as motionless as if they were so many
saints, hewn in stone.Many remained in that posture as long as the
fighting lasted.'The truth appears to be that many of Nelson's men
had been intimidated into joining the rebel force.The engagement
lasted in all about two hours and a half.The defenders of the church
made several successful sallies; and just when the {124} rebels were
beginning to lose heart, a company of loyalists from across the
Richelieu fell on their flank and completed their discomfiture.The
rebels then retreated to Napierville, under the command of Hindenlang.Robert Nelson, seeing that the day was lost, left his men in the lurch
and rode for the American border.The losses of the rebels were
serious; they left fifty dead on the field and carried off as many
wounded.Of the loyalists, one officer and five men were killed and
one officer and eight men wounded.Later in the same day Sir John Colborne, at the head of a formidable
force, entered Napierville.On his approach those rebels who were
still in the village dispersed and fled to their homes.Detachments of
troops were immediately sent out to disperse bands of rebels reported
to be still under arms.The only encounter took place at Beauharnois,
where a large body of insurgents had assembled.After a slight
resistance they were driven out by two battalions of Glengarry
volunteers, supported by two companies of the 71st and a detachment of
Royal Engineers.In these expeditions the British soldiers, especially the volunteers,
did a good deal of burning and harrying.After the victory at {125}
Beauharnois they gave to the flames a large part of the village,
including the houses of some loyal citizens.In view of the
intimidation and depredations to which the loyalists had been subjected
by the rebels in the disaffected districts, the conduct of the men, in
these regrettable acts, may be understood and partially excused.But
no excuse can be offered for the attitude of the British authorities.There are well-authenticated cases of houses of 'notorious rebels'
burned down by the orders of Sir James Macdonell, Colborne's
second-in-command.Colborne himself acquired the nickname of 'the old
Firebrand'; and, while he cannot be charged with such a mania for
incendiarism as some writers have imputed to him, it does not appear
that he took any effective measures to stop the arson or to punish the
offenders.The rebellion of 1838 lasted scarcely a week.Failing important aid from the United States, the
rebels had an even slighter chance of success than they had had a year
before, for since that time the British regular troops in Canada had
been considerably increased in number.The chief responsibility for
the rebellion must be placed at the door of Robert Nelson, who at {126}
the critical moment fled over the border, leaving his dupes to
extricate themselves as best they could from the situation into which
he had led them.As was the case in 1837, most of the leaders of the
rebellion escaped from justice, leaving only the smaller fry in the
hands of the authorities.Of the lesser ringleaders nearly one hundred
were brought to trial.Two of the French-Canadian judges, one of them
being Elzear Bedard, attempted to force the government to try the
prisoners in the civil courts, where they would have the benefit of
trial by jury; but Sir John Colborne suspended these judges from their
functions, and brought the prisoners before a court-martial, specially
convened for the purpose.Twelve of them, including the French officer
Hindenlang, were condemned to death and duly executed.Most of the
others were transported to the convict settlements of Australia.It is
worthy of remark that none of those executed or deported had been
persons of note in the political arena before 1837.On the whole, it
must be confessed that these sentences showed a commendable moderation.It was thought necessary that a few examples should be made, as Lord
Durham's amnesty of the previous year had evidently encouraged some
{127} habitants to believe that rebellion was a venial offence.And
the execution of twelve men, out of the thousands who had taken part in
the revolt, cannot be said to have shown a bloodthirsty disposition on
the part of the government.{128}

CHAPTER XII

A POSTSCRIPT

The rebellion of 1837 now belongs to the dead past.The _Patriotes_
and the 'Bureaucrats' of those days have passed away; and the present
generation has forgotten, or should have forgotten, the passions which
inspired them.The time has come when Canadians should take an
impartial view of the events of that time, and should be willing to
recognize the good and the bad on either side.It is absurd to pretend
that many of the English in Lower Canada were not arrogant and brutal
in their attitude toward the French Canadians, and lawless in their
methods of crushing the rebellion; or that many of the _Patriote_
leaders were not hopelessly irreconcilable before the rebellion, and
during it criminally careless of the interests of the poor habitants
they had misled.On the other hand, no true Canadian can fail to be
proud of the spirit of loyalty which in 1837 {129} actuated not only
persons of British birth, but many faithful sons and daughters of the
French-Canadian Church.Nor can one fail to admire the devotion to
liberty, to 'the rights of the people,' which characterized rebels like
Robert Bouchette.'When I speak of the rights of the people,' wrote
Bouchette, 'I do not mean those abstract or extravagant rights for
which some contend, but which are not generally compatible with an
organized state of society, but I mean those cardinal rights which are
inherent to British subjects, and which, as such, ought not to be
denied to the inhabitants of any section of the empire, however
remote.'The people of Canada to-day are able to combine loyalty and
liberty as the men of that day were not; and they should never forget
that in some measure they owe to the one party the continuance of
Canada in the Empire, and to the other party the freedom wherewith they
have been made free.From a print in M'Gill University
Library.]The later history of the _Patriotes_ falls outside the scope of this
little book, but a few lines may be added to trace their varying
fortunes.Robert Nelson took
up his abode in New York, and there practised surgery until {130} his
death in 1873.E. B. O'Callaghan went to Albany, and was there
employed by the legislature of New York in preparing two series of
volumes entitled _A Documentary History of New York_ and _Documents
relating to the Colonial History of the State of New York_, volumes
which are edited in so scholarly a manner, and throw such light on
Canadian history, that the Canadian historian would fain forgive him
for his part in the unhappy rebellion of '37.Most of the _Patriote_ leaders took advantage, however, of the virtual
amnesty offered them in 1842 by the first LaFontaine-Baldwin
administration, and returned to Canada.Many of these, as well as many
of the _Patriote_ leaders who had not been implicated in the rebellion
and who had not fled the country, rose to positions of trust and
prominence in the public service of Canada.Louis Hippolyte
LaFontaine, after having gone abroad during the winter of 1837-38, and
after having been arrested on suspicion in November 1838, entered the
parliament of Canada, formed, with Robert Baldwin as his colleague, the
administration which ushered in full responsible government, and was
knighted by Queen Victoria.Augustin Morin, the reputed author {131}
of the Ninety-Two Resolutions, who had spent the winter of 1837-38 in
hiding, became the colleague of Francis Hincks in the Hincks-Morin
administration.George Etienne Cartier, who had shouldered a musket at
St Denis, became the lifelong colleague of Sir John Macdonald and was
made a baronet by his sovereign.Dr Wolfred Nelson returned to his
practice in Montreal in 1842.In 1844 he was elected member of
parliament for the county of Richelieu.In 1851 he was appointed an
inspector of prisons.Thomas Storrow Brown, on his return to Montreal,
took up again his business in hardware, and is remembered to-day by
Canadian numismatists as having been one of the first to issue a
halfpenny token, which bore his name and is still sought by collectors.Robert Bouchette recovered from the serious wound he had sustained at
Moore's Corners, and later became Her Majesty's commissioner of customs
at Ottawa.Papineau returned to Canada in 1845.The greater part of his period of
exile he spent in Paris, where he came in touch with the'red
republicans' who later supported the revolution of 1848.He entered
the Canadian parliament in 1847 and sat in it until 1854.{132} But he
proved to be completely out of harmony with the new order of things
under responsible government.Even with his old lieutenant LaFontaine,
who had made possible his return to Canada, he had an open breach.The
truth is that Papineau was born to live in opposition.That he himself
realized this is clear from a laughing remark which he made when
explaining his late arrival at a meeting: 'I waited to take an
opposition boat.'His real importance after his return to Canada lay
not in the parliamentary sphere, but in the encouragement which he gave
to those radical and anti-clerical ideas that found expression in the
foundation of the _Institut Canadien_ and the formation of the _Parti
Rouge_.In many respects the _Parti Rouge_ was the continuation of the
_Patriote_ party of 1837.Papineau's later days were quiet and
dignified.He retired to his seigneury of La Petite Nation at
Montebello and devoted himself to his books.With many of his old
antagonists he effected a pleasant reconciliation.Only on rare
occasions did he break his silence; but on one of these, when he came
to Montreal, an old silver-haired man of eighty-one years, to deliver
an address before the _Institut Canadien_, he uttered a sentence which
may be taken as {133} the _apologia pro vita sua_: 'You will believe
me, I trust, when I say to you, I love my country....  Opinions outside
may differ; but looking into my heart and my mind in all sincerity, I
feel I can say that I have loved her as she should be loved.'And
charity covereth a multitude of sins.{134}

BIBLIOGRAPHICAL NOTE

The story of the Lower Canada rebellion is told in detail in some of
the general histories of Canada.William Kingsford, _History of
Canada_ (1887-94), is somewhat inaccurate and shows a strong bias
against the _Patriotes_, but his narrative of the rebellion is full and
interesting.F. X. Garneau, _Histoire du Canada_ (1845-52), presents
the history of the period, from the French-Canadian point of view, with
sympathy and power.A work which holds the scales very evenly is
Robert Christie, _A History of the Late Province of Lower Canada_
(1848-55).Christie played a not inconspicuous part in the
pre-rebellion politics, and his volumes contain a great deal of
original material of first-rate importance.Of special studies of the rebellion there are a number worthy of
mention.L. O. David, _Les Patriotes de 1837-38_, is valuable for its
complete biographies of the leaders in the movement.L. N. Carrier,
_Les Evenements de 1837-38_ (1877), is a sketch of the rebellion
written by the son of one of the _Patriotes_.Globensky, _La Rebellion
de 1837 a Saint-Eustache_ (1883), written by the son of an officer in
the loyalist militia, contains some original materials of value.Lord
Charles Beauclerk, _Lithographic Views of Military Operations in Canada
under Sir John Colborne, O.C.B., {135} etc._ (1840), apart from the
value of the illustrations, is interesting on account of the
introduction, in which the author, a British army officer who served in
Canada throughout the rebellion, describes the course of the military
operations.The political aspect of the rebellion, from the Tory point
of view, is dealt with in T. C. Haliburton, _The Bubbles of Canada_
(1839).For a penetrating analysis of the situation which led to the
rebellion see Lord Durham's _Report on the Affairs of British North
America_.A few biographies may be consulted with advantage.N. E. Dionne,
_Pierre Bedard et ses fils_ (1909), throws light on the earlier period;
as does also Ernest Cruikshank, _The Administration of Sir James Craig_
(_Transactions of the Royal Society of Canada_, 3rd series, vol.See also A. D. DeCelles, _Papineau_ (1904), in the 'Makers of Canada'
series; and Stuart J. Reid, _Life and Letters of the First Earl of
Durham_ (1906).The parish histories, in which the province of Quebec abounds, will be
found to yield much information of a local nature with regard to the
rebellion; and the same may be said of the publications of local
historical societies, such as that of Missisquoi county.An original document of primary importance is the _Report of the state
trials before a general court-martial held at Montreal in 1838-39;
exhibiting a complete history of the late rebellion in Lower Canada_
(1839).{136}

INDEX

Assembly, the language question in the, 8-12; racial conflict over form
of taxation, 13-14; the struggle with Executive for full control of
revenue leads to deadlock, 22-5, 27, 29-30, 53-4, 57; seeks redress in
Imperial parliament, 28-32; the Ninety-Two Resolutions, 38-42; the
grievance commission, 45-6, 52, 55-6; the Russell Resolutions, 57-61.Aylmer, Lord, governor of Canada, 29, 33-4, 44, 45.Beauharnois, Patriotes defeated at, 124-5.Bedard, Elzear, introduces the Ninety-Two Resolutions, 38, 42;
suspended as a judge, 126.Bedard, Pierre, and French-Canadian nationalism, 11, 15, 16; his arrest
and release, 17-19, 20.Bidwell, M. S., speaker of Upper Canada Assembly, 53.Bouchette, Robert Shore Milnes, 129; wounded at Moore's Corners, 89-90,
91, 102, 108, 131.Bourdages, Louis, Papineau's chief lieutenant, 36.Brougham, Lord, criticizes Durham's policy, 110.Brown, Thomas Storrow, 38, 72, 73, 131; in command of Patriotes at St
Charles, 74, 84-6, 102, 108.Buller, Charles, secretary to Durham, 109, 113.Cartier, Sir George, 30; a follower of Papineau, 37, 131.Catholic Church in Canada, the, 7; opposes revolutionary movement,
64-5, 102, 103.Chartier, Abbe, encourages the rebels at St Eustache, 95-6; escapes to
the United States, 99.Chartier de Lotbiniere, on French-Canadian loyalty, 11.'Chateau Clique,' the, 22; and the Patriotes, 25, 31.Chenier, Dr J. O., killed at St Eustache, 93, 94, 95, 97-9, 102, 108.Christie, Robert, expelled from the Assembly, 34, 134.Colborne, Sir John, his letter on the situation previous to the
Rebellion, 69-71; his 1837 campaign, 74-5, 83, 94, 97-101, 102;
administrator of the province, 106-8; his 1838 campaign, 122, 124, 125,
126.Cote, Dr Cyrile, 89, 108, 118, 120; defeated at Lacolle, 121-2.Craig, Sir James, his 'Reign of Terror,' 15-20, 23.Cuvillier, Augustin, 28-9; breaks with Papineau, 37, 42, 44.Dalhousie, Lord, his quarrel with Papineau, 27-9.Daly, Dominick, provincial secretary, 107.Debartzch, D. P., breaks with Papineau, 71, 84.Deseves, Father, 93; his picture of the rebels at St Eustache, 96-7.Durham, Earl of, governor and Lord High Commissioner, 104-6; his humane
policy fails to find support in Britain, 107-12; his appeal to Canadian
public opinion, 112-13; his Report, 114-16.Duvernay, Ludger, at Moore's Corners, 89.Elgin, Lord, and French-Canadian nationalism, 116.English Canadians, their conflicts with the Patriotes, 51, 64, 128.Ermatinger, Lieutenant, defeated by Patriotes, 73-4.French Canadians, their attitude toward the British in 1760, 2; their
loyalty, 2-5, 128-9; their generous treatment, 7-8; their fight for
official recognition of their language, 8-12, 50; their struggle with
the 'Chateau Clique,' 22-5, 29; their fight for national identity,
26-7, 29, 115-16.French Revolution, the, and the French Canadians, 4-5.Gipps, Sir George, on the grievance commission, 46, 55.Girod, Amury, commands the rebels at St Eustache, 92-3, 94, 95, 103;
commits suicide, 99-100, 108.Gladstone, W. E., supports the Russell Resolutions, 60.Glenelg, Lord, colonial secretary, 46.Goderich, Lord, colonial secretary, 29, 30.Gore, Colonel Charles, commands the British at St Denis, 75-7, 88.Gosford, Lord, governor of Canada, 45-7, 49-53, 55, 57-8, 61, 64, 106.Great Britain, and French-Canadian loyalty, 2-5; her conciliatory
policy in Lower Canada, 7-8, 9, 44-6, 57-60; and the Rebellion, 104,
110-111.Grey, Sir Charles, on the grievance commission, 45-6, 55.Gugy, Major Conrad, 48; at St Charles, 82-3; wounded at St Eustache, 99.Haldimand, Sir Frederick, governor of Canada, 3-4.Head, Sir F. B., his indiscreet action, 52-3.Hindenlang, leads Patriotes in second rebellion, 120, 121, 123, 124;
executed, 126.Kemp, Captain, defeats the Patriotes at Moore's Corners, 90-2.Kimber, Dr, in the affair at Moore's Corners, 89.Lacolle, rebels defeated at, 121-2.LaFontaine, L. H., a follower of Papineau, 37, 63, 108, 130, 132.Lartigue, Mgr, his warning to the revolutionists, 65.Legislative Council, the, 22, 25, 31, 36, 41, 46, 53, 54, 55, 59.Lower Canada, the conflict between French and English Canadians in,
13-15, 33, 114; the Rebellion of 1837, 69-103; the constitution
suspended, 104, 106; treatment of the rebels, 108-13; Durham's
investigation and Report, 114-116; the Rebellion of 1838, 117-27.Macdonell, Sir James, Colborne's second-in-command, 125.Mackenzie, W. L., and the Patriotes, 72.Melbourne, Lord, and Durham's policy, 111.Mondelet, Dominique, 30; expelled from the Assembly, 36.Montreal, rioting in, 71-2.Moore's Corners, rebels defeated at, 89-92.Morin, A. N., a follower of Papineau, 37, 108, 130-1.Neilson, John, supports the Patriote cause, 26-7, 28; breaks with
Papineau, 36-7, 38, 42, 44.Nelson, Robert, 108; leader of the second rebellion, 117-26, 129-30.Nelson, Dr Wolfred, a follower of Papineau, 37, 60, 65, 66, 70, 73, 74;
in command at St Denis, 74, 76, 79, 80, 88, 102, 108, 109, 131.Ninety-Two Resolutions, the, 38-42, 44.O'Callaghan, E. B., a follower of Papineau, 37, 73, 74, 78, 87-8, 108,
130.O'Connell, Daniel, champions the cause of the Patriotes, 59-60.Panet, Jean Antoine, his election as speaker of the Assembly, 9-10, 22;
imprisoned, 17.Panet, Louis, on the language question, 10.Papineau, Louis Joseph, 21; elected speaker of the Assembly, 22, 28;
opposes Union Bill in London, 26-7; his attack on Dalhousie, 27-29;
defeats Goderich's financial proposal, and declines seat on Executive
Council, 30; attacks Aylmer, 33-4, 47.  becomes more violent and
domineering in the Assembly, 34-5; his political views become
revolutionary, 35-6, 42-43; his powerful following, 37-8, 44, the
Ninety-Two Resolutions, 38-42; hopeless of obtaining justice from
Britain, but disclaims intention of stirring up civil war, 47-8, 53; on
the Russell Resolutions, 60-1; his attitude previous to the outbreak,
66-68, 70; warrant issued for his arrest, 72-3, 74; escapes to the
United States, 78-9, 87-8, 90, 92, 108; holds aloof from second
rebellion, 118; his return to Canada, 131-3; his personality, 21, 25-6,
30-1, 49-50, 68, 79, 132-3.Paquin, Abbe, opposes the rebels at St Eustache, 95, 102.Parent, Etienne, breaks with Papineau, 42, 43.Patriotes, the, 22, 25; their struggle with the 'Chateau Clique,' 31-2,
54-5; the racial feud becomes more bitter, 33-34, 128; the Ninety-Two
Resolutions, 38-42, 44-5, 52; the passing of the Russell Resolutions
causes great agitation, 60-2; declare a boycott on English goods, 62-3;
'Fils de la Liberte' formed, 63, 71-2; begin to arm, 63-4, 69-71; the
Montreal riot, 71-2; the first rebellion, 73-103; Lord Durham's
amnesty, 108-110, 113; the second rebellion, 117-27; and afterwards,
128-33.Perrault, Charles Ovide, killed at St Denis, 78 n.

Prevost, Sir George, and the French Canadians, 20.Quebec Act of 1774, the, 7, 9.Quesnel, F. A., and Papineau, 34-5, 37, 42, 44, 71.Rodier, Edouard, 62-3; at Moore's Corners, 89, 108.Russell, Lord John, his resolutions affecting Canada, 58-59; defends
Durham's policy, 111.Ryland, Herman W., and the French Canadians, 16.St Benoit, the burning of, 100-101.St Charles, the Patriote meeting at, 65-6; the fight at, 74, 82-7.St Denis, the fight at, 74-81; destroyed, 88.St Eustache, the Patriotes defeated at, 92-100.St Ours, the Patriote meeting at, 60-1, 70, 75.Salaberry, Major de, his victory at Chateauguay, 5.Sewell, John, and the French Canadians, 16.Sherbrooke, Sir John, his policy of conciliation, 24.Stanley, Lord, supports the Russell Resolutions, 60.Stuart, Andrew, and Papineau, 37, 42, 44.Tache, E. P., a follower of Papineau, 37, 102.Taylor, Lieut.-Colonel, defends Odelltown against the rebels, 123-4.United States, and the French Canadians, 2-3, 117-19.Viger, Bonaventure, a Patriote leader, 73, 108.Viger, Denis B., a follower of Papineau, 28-9, 63.War of 1812, French-Canadian loyalty in the, 5.Weir, Lieut., his murder at St Denis, 79-80, 88, 99.Wellington, Duke of, and Durham's policy in Canada, 110-111.Wetherall, Lieut.-Colonel, defeats rebels at St Charles, 75, 82, 83,
86, 88.Wool, General, disarms force of Patriotes on the United States border,
119.Printed by T. and A. Constable, Printers to His Majesty
  at the Edinburgh University Press






THE CHRONICLES OF CANADA

THIRTY-TWO VOLUMES ILLUSTRATED

Edited by GEORGE M. WRONG and H. H. LANGTON



THE CHRONICLES OF CANADA

PART I

THE FIRST EUROPEAN VISITORS

1.THE DAWN OF CANADIAN HISTORY
    By Stephen Leacock.THE MARINER OF ST MALO
    By Stephen Leacock.PART II

THE RISE OF NEW FRANCE

3.THE FOUNDER OF NEW FRANCE
    By Charles W. Colby.THE JESUIT MISSIONS
    By Thomas Guthrie Marquis.THE SEIGNEURS OF OLD CANADA
    By William Bennett Munro.THE GREAT INTENDANT
    By Thomas Chapais.THE FIGHTING GOVERNOR
    By Charles W. Colby.PART III

THE ENGLISH INVASION

8.THE GREAT FORTRESS
    By William Wood.THE ACADIAN EXILES
    By Arthur G. Doughty.THE PASSING OF NEW FRANCE
     By William Wood.THE WINNING OF CANADA
     By William Wood.PART IV

THE BEGINNINGS OF BRITISH CANADA

12.THE FATHER OF BRITISH CANADA
     By William Wood.THE UNITED EMPIRE LOYALISTS
     By W. Stewart Wallace.THE WAR WITH THE UNITED STATES
     By William Wood.PART V

THE RED MAN IN CANADA

15.THE WAR CHIEF OF THE OTTAWAS
     By Thomas Guthrie Marquis.THE WAR CHIEF OF THE SIX NATIONS
     By Louis Aubrey Wood.TECUMSEH: THE LAST GREAT LEADER OF HIS PEOPLE
     By Ethel T. Raymond.PART VI

PIONEERS OF THE NORTH AND WEST

18.THE 'ADVENTURERS OF ENGLAND' ON HUDSON BAY
     By Agnes C. Laut.PATHFINDERS OF THE GREAT PLAINS
     By Lawrence J. Burpee.ADVENTURERS OF THE FAR NORTH
     By Stephen Leacock.THE RED RIVER COLONY
     By Louis Aubrey Wood.PIONEERS OF THE PACIFIC COAST
     By Agnes C. Laut.THE CARIBOO TRAIL
     By Agnes C. Laut.PART VII

THE STRUGGLE FOR POLITICAL FREEDOM

24.THE FAMILY COMPACT
     By W. Stewart Wallace.THE 'PATRIOTES' OF '37
     By Alfred D. DeCelles.THE TRIBUNE OF NOVA SCOTIA
     By William Lawson Grant.THE WINNING OF POPULAR GOVERNMENT
     By Archibald MacMechan.PART VIII

THE GROWTH OF NATIONALITY

28.THE FATHERS OF CONFEDERATION
     By A. H. U. Colquhoun.THE DAY OF SIR JOHN MACDONALD
     By Sir Joseph Pope.THE DAY OF SIR WILFRID LAURIER
     By Oscar D. Skelton.PART IX

NATIONAL HIGHWAYS

31.ALL AFLOAT
     By William Wood.THE RAILWAY BUILDERS
     By Oscar D. Skelton.Scar-Cheek, the Wild Half-Breed.Red Rattlesnake, The Pawnee.THE ARTHUR WESTBROOK CO.Cleveland, U.S.A.Still come into it the Brinsmades to marriage and to
death.Calvin Brinsmade took his
bride there.They sat on the porch in the morning light, harking to
the whistle of the quail in the corn, and watching the frightened deer
scamper across the open.Do you see the bride in her high-waisted gown,
and Mr.Calvin in his stock and his blue tail-coat and brass buttons?Old people will tell you of the royal hospitality then, of the famous
men and women who promenaded under those chandeliers, and sat down to
the game-laden table.In 1835 General Atkinson and his officers thought
nothing of the twenty miles from Jefferson Barracks below, nor of
dancing all night with the Louisville belles, who were Mrs.Thither came Miss Todd of Kentucky, long before she thought
of taking for a husband that rude man of the people, Abraham Lincoln.Foreigners of distinction fell in love with the place, with its
open-hearted master and mistress, and wrote of it in their journals.Would that many of our countrymen, who think of the West as rough, might
have known the quality of the Brinsmades and their neighbors!An era of charity, of golden simplicity, was passing on that October
night of Anne Brinsmade's ball.Those who made merry there were soon
to be driven and scattered before the winds of war; to die at Wilson's
Creek, or Shiloh, or to be spared for heroes of the Wilderness.Some
were to eke out a life of widowhood in poverty.All were to live
soberly, chastened by what they had seen.A fear knocked at Colonel
Carvel's heart as he stood watching the bright figures."Brinsmade," he said, "do you remember this room in May, '46?"Brinsmade, startled, turned upon him quickly."Why, Colonel, you have read my very thoughts," he said."Some of those
who were here then are--are still in Mexico.""And some who came home, Brinsmade, blamed God because they had not
fallen," said the Colonel."Hush, Comyn, His will be done," he answered; "He has left a daughter to
comfort you."In her gown of faded primrose
and blue with its quaint stays and short sleeves, she seemed to have
caught the very air of the decorous century to which it belonged.She
was standing against one of the pilasters at the side of the
room, laughing demurely at the antics of Becky Sharp and Sir John
Falstaff,--Miss Puss Russell and Mr.Tennyson's "Idylls" having appeared but the year before, Anne was
dressed as Elaine, a part which suited her very well.It was strange
indeed to see her waltzing with Daniel Boone (Mr.Clarence Colfax)
in his Indian buckskins.Eugenie went as Marie Antoinette.Tall Maude
Catherwood was most imposing as Rebecca; and her brother George made a
towering Friar Tuck, Even little fifteen-year-old Spencer Catherwood,
the contradiction of the family, was there.He went as the lieutenant
Napoleon, walking about with his hands behind his back and his brows
thoughtfully contracted.It was at tine very height of the
festivities that Dorothy Carvel and Mr.Daniel Boone were making their
way together to the porch when the giant gate-keeper of Kenilworth
Castle came stalking up the steps out of the darkness, brandishing his
club in their faces.Dorothy screamed, and even the doughty Daniel gave
back a step."I'm sorry, Jinny, indeed I am," said the giant, repentant, and holding
her hand in his.demanded Virginia, a little mollified."I've been to a Lincoln meeting," said honest Tom; "where I heard a very
fine speech from a friend of yours.""You might have been better employed," said she, and added, with
dignity, "I have no friends who speak at Black Republican meetings.""No," said Tom, "I meant--"

He got no further.Virginia slipped her arm through Clarence's, and they
went off together to the end of the veranda.He passed on into
the gay drawing-room, but the zest had been taken out of his antics for
that night."Whom did he mean, Jinny?"said Clarence, when they were on the seat
under the vines."He meant that Yankee, Stephen Brice," answered Virginia, languidly."I
am so tired of hearing about him.""So am I," said Clarence, with a fervor by no means false."By George,
I think he will make a Black Republican out of Tom, if he keeps on.Puss and Jack have been talking about him all summer, until I am out
of patience.But suppose he has addressed fifty
Lincoln meetings, as they say, is that any reason for making much
of him?I should not have him at Bellegarde."He is on the Brinsmade charity list.""He is not on their charity list, nor on any other," said Virginia,
quickly."Stephen Brice is the last person who would submit to charity.""And you are the last person who I supposed would stand up for him,"
cried her cousin, surprised and nettled."I want to be fair, Max," she said quietly."Pa offered them our Glencoe
House last summer at a low price, and they insisted on paying what
Mr.Edwards gave five years ago,--or nothing.You know that I detest
a Yankee as much as you do," she continued, indignation growing in her
voice."I did not come out here with you to be insulted."With her hand on the rail, she made as if to rise.Clarence was perforce
mollified."Don't go, Jinny," he said beseechingly."I didn't mean to make you
angry--"

"I can't see why you should always be dragging in this Mr.Brice," she
said, almost tearfully.(It will not do to pause now and inquire into
Virginia's logic.)"I came out to hear what you had to tell me.""Jinny, I have been made second lieutenant of Company A.""Oh, Max, I am so glad!"I suppose that you have heard the result of the October elections,
Jinny.""Pa said something about them to-night," she answered; "why?""It looks now as if there were a chance of the Republicans winning," he
answered.But it was elation that caught his voice, not gloom."You mean that this white trash Lincoln may be President?""The South will not submit to that until every man
who can bear arms is shot down."The strains of a waltz
mingled with talk and laughter floated out of the open window.His voice
dropped to a low intensity."We are getting ready in Company A," he
said; "the traitors will be dropped.We are getting ready to fight for
Missouri and for the South."The girl felt his excitement, his exaltation."And if you were not, Max, I should disown you," she whispered.He leaned forward until his face was close to hers."I am ready to work, to starve, to go to prison, to help--"

He sank back heavily into the corner."Oh, if a woman could only do more!"Do you remember
when you told me that I was good for nothing, that I lacked purpose?""I have thought it over since," he went on rapidly; "you were right.I
cannot work--it is not in me.But I have always felt that I could make a
name for myself--for you--in the army.I am sure that I could command a
regiment.She did not answer him, but absently twisted the fringe of his buckskins
in her fingers."Ever since I have known what love is I have loved you, Jinny.It was so
when we climbed the cherry trees at Bellegarde.And you loved me then--I
know you did.You loved me when I went East to school at the Military
Institute.But it has not been the same of late," he faltered.I felt it first on that day you rode out to
Bellegarde when you said that my life was of no use.Jinny, I don't ask
much.War is coming, and we shall have
to free ourselves from Yankee insolence.It is what we have both wished
for.When I am a general, will you marry me?"For a wavering instant she might have thrown herself into his
outstretched arms.Why not, and have done with sickening doubts?Perhaps
her hesitation hung on the very boyishness of his proposal.Perhaps the
revelation that she did not then fathom was that he had not developed
since those childish days.But even while she held back, came the beat
of hoofs on the gravel below them, and one of the Bellegarde servants
rode into the light pouring through the open door.Clarence muttered his dismay as he followed his cousin to the steps."Nothing; I forgot to sign the deed to the Elleardsville property,
and Worington wants it to-night."Cutting short <DW71>'s explanations,
Clarence vaulted on the horse.Leaning over
in the saddle, he whispered: "I'll be back in a quarter of an hour Will
you wait?""Yes," she said, so that he barely heard.He was away at a gallop, leaving Virginia standing bareheaded to the
night, alone.A spring of pity, of affection for Clarence suddenly
welled up within her.There came again something of her old admiration
for a boy, impetuous and lovable, who had tormented and defended her
with the same hand.Patriotism, stronger in Virginia than many of us now can conceive, was
on Clarence's side.Now was she all
afire with the thought that she, a woman, might by a single word
give the South a leader.That word would steady him, for there was no
question of her influence.She trembled at the reckless lengths he might
go in his dejection, and a memory returned to her of a day at Glencoe,
before he had gone off to school, when she had refused to drive with
him.Colonel Carvel had been away from home.In spite of Ned's beseechings Clarence had ridden off on a wild
thoroughbred colt and had left her to an afternoon of agony.Vividly
she recalled his home-coming in the twilight, his coat torn and muddy, a
bleeding cut on his forehead, and the colt quivering tame.In those days she had thought of herself unreservedly as meant for
him.Dash and courage and generosity had been the beacon lights on her
horizon.Yes, and Clarence
should have these, too.She also had been
at fault, and perhaps it was because of her wavering loyalty to him that
he had not gained them.Her name spoken within the hall startled Virginia from her reverie, and
she began to walk rapidly down the winding drive.A fragment of the air
to which they were dancing brought her to a stop.It was the Jenny Lind
waltz.And with it came clear and persistent the image she had sought to
shut out and failed.As if to escape it now, she fairly ran all the way
to the light at the entrance and hid in the magnolias clustered beside
the gateway.It was her cousin's name she whispered over and over to
herself as she waited, vibrant with a strange excitement.It was as
though the very elements might thwart her wail.Clarence would be
delayed, or they would miss her at the house, and search.It seemed an
eternity before she heard the muffled thud of a horse cantering in the
clay road.Virginia stood out in the light fairly between the gate posts.Too late
she saw the horse rear as the rider flew back in his seat, for she had
seized the bridle.The beams from the lamp fell upon a Revolutionary
horseman, with cooked hat and sword and high riding-boots.For her his
profile was in silhouette, and the bold nose and chin belonged to but
one man she knew.She gave a cry of astonishment
and dropped the rein in dismay.Her
impulse was to fly, nor could she tell what force that stayed her feet.As for Stephen, he stood high in his stirrups and stared down at the
girl.She was standing full in the light,--her lashes fallen, her face
crimson.But no sound of surprise escaped him because it was she, nor
did he wonder at her gown of a gone-by century.Her words came first,
and they were low."I--I thought that you were my cousin," she said.She gave a step backward, and raised her frightened eyes to his."I can't say why," he said quickly, "but it seems to me as if this had
happened before.I know that I am talking nonsense--"

Virginia was trembling now.And her answer was not of her own choosing."It may have been in a dream," he answered her, "that I saw you as you
stand there by my bridle.And what mystery
was it that sent him here this night of all nights?She could not even
have said that it was her own voice making reply."And I--I have seen you, with the sword, and the powdered hair, and the
blue coat and the buff waistcoat.It is a buff waistcoat like that my
great-grandfather wears in his pictures.""It is a buff waistcoat," he said, all sense of strangeness gone.The roses she held dropped on the gravel, and she put out her hand
against his horse's flank.In an instant he had leaped from his saddle,
and his arm was holding her.She did not resist, marvelling rather at
his own steadiness, nor did she then resent a tenderness in his voice."I hope you will forgive me--Virginia," he said."It was I who stopped you," she said; "I was waiting for--"

"For whom?"Colfax," she answered, in another tone.And as she
spoke she drew away from him, up the driveway.But she had scarcely
taken five steps whey she turned again, her face burning defiance."They
told me you were not coming," she said almost fiercely."You know I would not have been
here had I thought you were coming.Anne promised me that you would not
come."What would she not have given for those words back again

Stephen took astride toward her, and to the girl that stride betokened a
thousand things that went to the man's character.Within its compass the
comparison in her mind was all complete.He was master of himself when
he spoke."You dislike me, Miss Carvel," he said steadily.Nor do I flatter myself that it is only because you believe one thing,
and I another.But I assure you that it is my misfortune rather than my
fault that I have not pleased you,--that I have met you only to anger
you."He paused, for she did not seem to hear him.She was gazing at the
distant lights moving on the river.Had he come one step farther?--but
he did not.Presently she knew that he was speaking again, in the same
measured tone."Had Miss Brinsmade told me that my presence here would cause you
annoyance, I should have stayed away.I hope that you will think nothing
of the--the mistake at the gate.You may be sure that I shall not
mention it.He lifted his hat, mounted his horse, and was gone.She had not even
known that he could ride--that was strangely the first thought.The
second discovered herself intent upon the rhythm of his canter as it
died southward upon the road.There was shame in this, mingled with a
thankfulness that he would not meet Clarence.She hurried a few steps
toward the house, and stopped again.Ringing there was her talk with
Stephen Brice, as though it were still rapidly going on.His questions
and her replies--over and over again.Each trivial incident of an
encounter real and yet unreal!His transformation in the uniform, which
had seemed so natural.Though she strove to make it so, nothing of all
this was unbearable now, nor the remembrance of the firm torch of his
arm about her nor yet again his calling her by her name.Absently she took her way again up the drive, now pausing, now going on,
forgetful.First it was alarm she felt when her cousin leaped down at
her side,--then dread."I thought I should never get back," he cried breathlessly, as he threw
his reins to <DW71>."I ought not to have asked you to wait outside.She answered something, There was a seat near by under the trees.To
lead her to it he seized her hand, but it was limp and cold, and a
sudden fear came into his voice.She remembered long how he
stood in the scattered light from the bright windows, a tall, black
figure of dismay.But her own
response, warm half an hour since, was lifeless."Jinny," he said, "what is the matter?"Only I was very foolish to say I would wait for you.""Then--then you won't marry me?""Oh, Max," she cried, "it is no time to talk of that now.I feel
to-night as if something dreadful were to happen.""But war is what we want," he cried, "what we have prayed for, what we
have both been longing for to-night, Jinny.War alone will give us our
rights--"

He stopped short.Virginia had bowed her head an her hands, and he saw
her shoulders shaken by a sob.Clarence bent over her in bewilderment
and anxiety."You are not well, Jinny," he said.But when they went in at the door, he saw that her eyes were dry.Those were the days when a dozen young ladies were in the habit of
staying all night after a dance in the country; of long whispered talks
(nay, not always whispered) until early morning.Miss Russell had not been the only one who remarked Virginia's long
absence with her cousin; but Puss found her friend in one of those moods
which even she dared not disturb.Accordingly Miss Russell stayed all
night with Anne.And the two spent most of the dark hours remaining in unprofitable
discussion as to whether Virginia were at last engaged to her cousin,
and in vain queried over another unsolved mystery.This mystery was
taken up at the breakfast table the next morning, when Miss Carvel
surprised Mrs.Brinsmade and the male household by appearing at
half-past seven.Brinsmade, "what does this mean?I always
thought that young ladies did not get up after a ball until noon.""I am going to ask you to take me to town when you go, Mr."Why, certainly, my dear," he said."But I under stood that your aunt
was to send for you this afternoon from Bellegarde.""There is something I wish to do in town.""I'll drive her in, Pa," said Jack.Will you go with
me, Jinny?""But you must eat some breakfast, Jinny," said Mrs Brinsmade, glancing
anxiously at the girl."Where was Stephen Brice last night, Jack?""I understood Anne
to say that he had spoke; of coming late.""Why, sir," said Jack, "that's what we can't make out.Tom Catherwood,
who is always doing queer things, you know, went to a Black Republican
meeting last night, and met Stephen there.They came out in Tom's buggy
to the Russells', and Tom got into his clothes first and rode over.Stephen was to have followed on Puss Russell's horse.At least I can find no one who saw him.But Virginia did not raise her eyes from her plate."There might have been an accident, Jack," said that lady, with concern."Send Nicodemus over to Mrs.Brice is a Northerner, and may not be able to ride.""He rides like a dragoon, mother," said he."I don't know where he
picked it up.""The reason I mentioned him," said Mr.Brinsmade, lifting the blanket
sheet and adjusting his spectacles, "was because his name caught my eye
in this paper.His speech last night at the Library Hall is one of the
few sensible Republican speeches I have read.I think it very remarkable
for a man as young as he."Brinsmade began to read: "'While waiting
for the speaker of the evening, who was half an hour late, Mr.Tiefel
rose in the audience and called loudly for Mr.Many citizens in
the hall were astonished at the cheering which followed the mention
of this name.Brice is a young lawyer with a quiet manner and a
determined face, who has sacrificed much to the Party's cause this
summer.He was introduced by Judge Whipple, in whose office he is.He had hardly begun to speak before he had the ear of everyone in the
house.Brice's personality is prepossessing, his words are spoken
sharply, and he has a singular emphasis at times which seems to drive
his arguments into the minds of his hearers.We venture to say that if
party orators here and elsewhere were as logical and temperate as Mr.Brice; if, like him, they appealed to reason rather than to passion,
those bitter and lamentable differences which threaten our country's
peace might be amicably adjusted.'But he was interrupted by the rising of Virginia.A high color was on
the girl's face as she said:

"Please excuse me, Mrs.Brinsmade, I must go and get ready.""But you've eaten nothing, my dear.""You ought not have read that, Pa," Mr.Jack remonstrated; "you know
that she detests Yankees."THE BREACH BECOMES TOO WIDE ABRAHAM LINCOLN!At the foot of Breed's Hill in Charlestown an American had been born
into the world, by the might of whose genius that fateful name was
sped to the uttermost parts of the nation.Abraham Lincoln was elected
President of the United States.And the moan of the storm gathering in
the South grew suddenly loud and louder.Stephen Brice read the news in the black headlines and laid down the
newspaper, a sense of the miraculous upon him.There again was the
angled, low-celled room of the country tavern, reeking with food and
lamps and perspiration; for a central figure the man of surpassing
homeliness,--coatless, tieless, and vestless,--telling a story in
the vernacular.He reflected that it might well seem strange yea, and
intolerable--to many that this comedian of the country store, this crude
lawyer and politician, should inherit the seat dignified by Washington
and the Adamses.For to him had been vouchsafed the glimpse
beyond.That was a dark winter that followed, the darkest in our history.Gloom
and despondency came fast upon the heels of Republican exultation.Men
rose early for tidings from Charleston, the storm centre.Would it crumble in pieces before Abraham
Lincoln got to Washington?One smoky morning early in December Stephen arrived late at the office
to find Richter sitting idle on his stool, concern graven on his face."The Judge has had no breakfast, Stephen," he whispered.Shadrach tells me he has been doing that since six this morning, when he
got his newspaper."Stephen listened, and he heard the Judge pacing and pacing in his room.Presently the door was flung open, And they saw Mr.Whipple standing in
the threshold, stern and dishevelled.He came out and sat down in Stephen's chair, striking the newspaper in
his hand, and they feared at first that his Mind had wandered.he cried, "propitiate, propitiate, and again propitiate.Suddenly he turned upon Stephen, who was frightened.But now his voice was natural, and he thrust the paper into the young
man's lap."Have you read the President's message to Congress, sir?God
help me that I am spared to call that wobbling Buchanan President.Perhaps you can tell me why,
if a man admits that it is wrong for a state to abandon this Union, he
cannot call upon Congress for men and money to bring her back.No, this
weakling lets Floyd stock the Southern arsenals.He is for bribing them not to be angry.Take Cuba from Spain,
says he, and steal the rest of Mexico that the maw of slavery may be
filled, and the demon propitiated."And so he went back into his room, shutting
the door.That day no clients saw him, even those poor ones dependent
on his charity whom had never before denied.Richter and Stephen took
counsel together, and sent Shadrach out for his dinner.There arrived a sparkling Sunday, brought down the
valley of the Missouri from the frozen northwest.The Saturday had been
soggy and warm.Thursday had seen South Carolina leave that Union into which she was
born, amid prayers and the ringing of bells.A young lady, who had listened to a solemn sermon of Dr.Posthelwaite's, slipped out of Church before the prayers were ended,
and hurried into that deserted portion of the town about the Court House
where on week days business held its sway.She stopped once at the bottom of the grimy flight of steps leading to
Judge Whipple's office.At the top she paused again, and for a short
space stood alert, her glance resting on the little table in the corner,
on top of which a few thumbed law books lay neatly piled.Once she made
a hesitating step in this direction.Then, as if by a resolution quickly
taken, she turned her back and softly opened the door of the Judge's
room.A book was open in his lap,
but it did not seem to Virginia that he was reading it."Uncle Silas," she said, "aren't you coming to dinner any more?"He looked up swiftly from under his shaggy brows."Uncle Silas," said Virginia, bravely, "I came to get you to-day."Never before had she known him to turn away from man or woman, but now
Judge Whipple drew his handkerchief from his pocket and blew his nose
violently.A woman's intuition told her that locked tight in his heart
was what he longed to say, and could not.The shiny black overcoat he
wore was on the bed.Virginia picked it up and held it out to him, an
appeal in her eyes.Many people walking home
from church that morning marvelled as they saw these two on Locust
Street together, the young girl supporting the elderly man over the
slippery places at the crossings.For neighbor had begun to look coldly
upon neighbor.Colonel Carvel beheld them from his armchair by the sitting-room window,
and leaned forward with a start.His lips moved as he closed his Bible
reverently and marked his place.At the foot of the stairs he surprised
Jackson by waving him aside, for the Colonel himself flung open the door
and held out his hand to his friend.The Judge released Virginia's arm,
and his own trembled as he gave it."Silas," said the Colonel, "Silas, we've missed you."Virginia stood by, smiling, but her breath came deeply.Judge Whipple did not go in at the
door--He stood uncompromisingly planted on the threshold, his head flung
back, and actual fierceness in his stare."Do you guess we can keep off the subject, Comyn?"Carvel, so used to the Judge's ways, was a bit taken aback by
this question.It set him tugging at his goatee, and his voice was not
quite steady as he answered:

"God knows, Silas.We are human, and we can only try."It lacked a quarter of an hour of
dinner,--a crucial period to tax the resources of any woman.Virginia
led the talk, but oh, the pathetic lameness of it.Her own mind was
wandering when it should not, and recollections she had tried to
strangle had sprung up once more.Only that morning in church she had
lived over again the scene by Mr.Brinsmade's gate, and it was then that
a wayward but resistless impulse to go to the Judge's office had seized
her.The thought of the old man lonely and bitter in his room decided
her.On her knees she prayed that she might save the bond between him
and her father.For the Colonel had been morose on Sundays, and had
taken to reading the Bible, a custom he had not had since she was a
child.In the dining-room Jackson, bowing and smiling, pulled out the Judge's
chair, and got his customary curt nod as a reward."Oh, Uncle Silas," she cried, "I am so glad that we have a wild turkey.The girl carved deftly, feverishly,
talking the while, aided by that most kind and accomplished of hosts,
her father.In the corner the dreaded skeleton of the subject grinned
sardonically.Were they going to be able to keep it off?There was to be
no help from Judge Whipple, who sat in grim silence.A man who feels
his soul burning is not given to small talk.Virginia alone had ever
possessed the power to make him forget."Uncle Silas, I am sure there are some things about our trip that we
never told you.How we saw Napoleon and his beautiful Empress driving
in the Bois, and how Eugenie smiled and bowed at the people.I never
saw such enthusiasm in my life.And oh, I learned such a lot of French
history.All about Francis the First, and Pa took me to see his chateaus
along the Loire.You really ought to have
gone with us.""I had other work to do, Jinny," said the Judge."I told you that we stayed with a real lord in England, didn't I?""He wasn't half as nice as the Prince.But he had a beautiful house
in Surrey, all windows, which was built in Elizabeth's time.They called
the architecture Tudor, didn't they, Pa?""Yes, dear," said the Colonel, smiling."The Countess was nice to me," continued the girl, "and took me to
garden parties.But Lord Jermyn was always talking politics."The Colonel was stroking his goatee."Tell Silas about the house, Jinny--Jackson, help the Judge again.""No," said Virginia, drawing a breath."I'm going to tell him about that
queer club where my great-grand-father used to bet with Charles Fox.We
saw a great many places where Richard Carvel had been in England.Uncle Daniel read me some of his memoirs when
we were at Calvert House.I know that you would be interested in them,
Uncle Silas."And fought for his country and for his flag, Virginia," said the Judge,
who had scarcely spoken until then."No, I could not bear to read them
now, when those who should love that country are leaving it in passion."Virginia did not dare to look at her father.But the Colonel said, gently:

"Not in passion, Silas, but in sorrow."But the effort was beyond him, and the
flood within him broke loose."Colonel Carvel," he cried, "South Carolina is mad--She is departing in
sin, in order that a fiendish practice may be perpetuated.If her people
stopped to think they would know that slavery cannot exist except by
means of this Union.But let this milksop of a President do his worst.We have chosen a man who has the strength to say, 'You shall not go!'"The saving grace of it was that respect and love
for her father filled Virginia's heart.In his just anger Colonel
Carvel remembered that he was the host, and strove to think only of his
affection for his old friend."To invade a sovereign state, sir, is a crime against the sacred spirit
of this government," he said."There is no such thing as a sovereign state, sir," exclaimed the Judge,
hotly."I am an American, and not a Missourian.""When the time comes, sir," said the Colonel, with dignity, "Missouri
will join with her sister sovereign states against oppression.""Missouri will not secede, sir.""Because, sir, when the worst comes, the Soothing Syrup men will rally
for the Union.And there are enough loyal people here to keep her
straight."Foreign Republican hirelings, sir," exclaimed
the Colonel, standing up."We shall drive them like sheep if they oppose
us.You are drilling them now that they may murder your own blood when
you think the time is ripe."The Colonel did not hear Virginia leave the room, so softly had she
gone, He made a grand figure of a man as he stood up, straight and tall,
those gray eyes a-kindle at last.But the fire died as quickly as it had
flared.Pity had come and quenched it,--pity that an unselfish life
of suffering and loneliness should be crowned with these.The Colonel
longed then to clasp his friend in his arms.Quarrels they had had
by the hundred, never yet a misunderstanding.God had given to Silas
Whipple a nature stern and harsh that repelled all save the charitable
few whose gift it was to see below the surface, and Colonel Carvel had
been the chief of them.But now the Judge's vision was clouded.Steadying himself by his chair, he had risen glaring, the loose skin
twitching on his sallow face.He began firmly but his voice shook ere he
had finished."Colonel Carvel," said he, "I expect that the day has come when you
go your way and I go mine.It will be better if--we do not meet again,
sir."And so he turned from the man whose friendship had stayed him for the
score of years he had battled with his enemies, from that house which
had been for so long his only home.For the last time Jackson came
forward to help him with his coat.The Judge did not see him, nor did he
see the tearful face of a young girl leaning over the banisters above.Whipple, blinded by a moisture strange to
his eyes, clung to the iron railing as he felt his way down the steps.Before he reached the bottom a stronger arm had seize his own, and was
helping him.The Judge brushed his eyes with his sleeve, and turned a defiant face
upon Captain Elijah Brent--then his voice broke.His anger was
suddenly gone, and his thought had flown back to the Colonel's thousand
charities."Lige," he said, "Lige, it has come."In answer the Captain pressed the Judge's hand, nodding vigorously to
hide his rising emotion.cried the Captain, "I wish I knew.""Lige," said the Judge, gravely, "you're too good a man to be for
Soothing Syrup.""You're too smart to be fooled, Lige," he said, with a note near to
pleading."The time has come when you Bell people and the Douglas people
have got to decide.Never in my life did I know it to do good to dodge
a question.We've got to be white or black, Lige.Nobody's got much
use for the grays.And don't let yourself be fooled with Constitutional
Union Meetings, and compromises.The time is almost here, Lige, when it
will take a rascal to steer a middle course."Captain Lige listened, and he shifted from one foot to the other, and
rubbed his hands, which were red.Some odd trick of the mind had put
into his head two people--Eliphalet Hopper and Jacob Cluyme."Lige, you've got to decide.Can you look
on while our own states defy us, and not lift a hand?Can you sit still
while the Governor and all the secessionists in this state are plotting
to take Missouri, too, out of the Union?The militia is riddled with
rebels, and the rest are forming companies of minute men.""And you Black Republicans," the Captain cried "have organized your
Dutch Wideawakes, and are arming them to resist Americans born.""They are Americans by our Constitution, sir, which the South pretends
to revere," cried the Judge."And they are showing themselves better
Americans than many who have been on the soil for generations.""My sympathies are with the South," said the Captain, doggedly, "and my
love is for the South."Both men raised their eyes to the house of him
whose loving hospitality had been a light in the lives of both.When at
last the Captain spoke, his voice was rent with feeling."Judge," he began, "when I was a poor young man on the old 'Vicksburg',
second officer under old Stetson, Colonel Carvel used to take me up to
his house on Fourth Street to dinner.And he gave me the clothes on
my back, so that I might not be ashamed before the fashion which came
there.One day the sheriff sold the
Vicksburg.That left me high and dry in the mud.And he says to me, 'Lige, you're
captain now, the youngest captain on the river.You
can pay me principal and interest when you get ready.'"Judge Whipple, I never had any other home than right in, this house.I
never had any other pleasure than bringing Jinny presents, and tryin' to
show 'em gratitude.He took me into his house and cared for me at a time
when I wanted to go to the devil along with the stevedores when I was
a wanderer he kept me out of the streets, and out of temptation.Judge,
I'd a heap rather go down and jump off the stern of my boat than step in
here and tell him I'd fight for the North."The Judge steadied himself on his hickory stick and walked off without
a word.For a while Captain Lige stood staring after him.Then he slowly
climbed the steps and disappeared.MUTTERINGS

Early in the next year, 1861,--that red year in the Calendar of our
history,--several gentlemen met secretly in the dingy counting-room of
a prominent citizen to consider how the state of Missouri might be saved
to the Union.One of these gentlemen was Judge Whipple, another, Mr.Brinsmade; and another a masterly and fearless lawyer who afterward
became a general, and who shall be mentioned in these pages as the
Leader.By his dash and boldness and statesmanlike grasp of a black
situation St.Louis was snatched from the very bosom of secession.Alas, that chronicles may not stretch so as to embrace all great men of
a time.There is Captain Nathaniel Lyon,--name with the fateful ring.Nathaniel Lyon, with the wild red hair and blue eye, born and bred a
soldier, ordered to St.Louis, and become subordinate to a wavering
officer of ordnance.Lyon was one who brooked no trifling.He had the
face of a man who knows his mind and intention; the quick speech and
action which go with this.Red tape made by the reel to bind him, he
broke.Courts-martial had no terrors for him.He proved the ablest of
lieutenants to the strong civilian who was the Leader.If God had willed that the South should win, there
would have been no occasion.Even as Judge Whipple had said, the time was come for all men to decide.Out of the way, all hopes of compromises that benumbed Washington.No
Constitutional Unionists, no Douglas Democrats, no Republicans now.The speech-making was not done with yet.Partisanship must be overcome, and patriotism instilled in its place.One day Stephen Brice saw the Leader go into Judge Whipple's room,
and presently he was sent for.After that he was heard of in various
out-of-the-way neighborhoods, exhorting all men to forget their quarrels
and uphold the flag.The Leader himself knew not night from day in his toil,--in organizing,
conciliating, compelling when necessary.And, after that solemn inauguration, between him and
Washington.It was an open secret that the Governor of Missouri held out
his arms to Jefferson Davis, just elected President of the new Southern
Confederacy.It soon became plain to the feeblest brain what the Leader
and his friends had perceived long before, that the Governor intended
to use the militia (purged of Yankee sympathizers) to save the state for
the South.The Government Arsenal, with its stores of arms and ammunition, was
the prize.This building and its grounds lay to the south of the
City, overlooking the river.It was in command of a doubting major
of ordnance; the corps of officers of Jefferson Barracks hard by was
mottled with secession.In all the South, Pickens and Sumter alone stood
stanch to the flag.A general, wearing the uniform of the army of the
United States, surrendered the whole state of Texas.Louis Arsenal was next in succession, and the little band of
regulars at the Barracks was powerless to save it.What could the Leader
and Captain Lyon do without troops?That was the question that rang
in Stephen's head, and in the heads of many others.For, if President
Lincoln sent troops to St.And the President had other uses for the handful in the army.There came a rain-sodden night when a mysterious message arrived at
the little house in Olive Street.Brice's eyes as they followed her son out of the door.At Twelfth
Street two men were lounging on the corners, each of whom glanced at
him listessly as he passed.He went up a dark and narrow stair into a
lighted hall with shrouded windows.Men with sober faces were forming
line on the sawdust of the floors.The Leader was there giving military
orders in a low voice.That marked the beginning of the aggressive Union
movement.Stephen, standing apart at the entrance, remarked that many of the men
were Germans.Indeed, he spied his friend Tiefel there, and presently
Richter came from the ranks to greet him."My friend," he said, "you are made second lieutenant of our company,
the Black Jaegers.""But I have never drilled in my life," said Stephen.The Leader, smiling a little, put a vigorous stop to his protestations,
and told him to buy a tactics.The next man Stephen saw was big Tom
Catherwood, who blushed to the line of his hair as he returned Stephen's
grip."Well," said Tom, embarrassed, "a fellow has got to do what he think's
right.""I reckon they'll disown me, Stephen, when they find it out."Richter walked home as far as Stephen's house.He was to take the Fifth
Street car for South St.And they talked of Tom's courage, and of
the broad and secret military organization the Leader had planned that
night.Could he afford to risk his life in the war that was coming, and leave
his mother dependent upon charity?It was shortly after this that Stephen paid his last visit for many a
long day upon Miss Puss Russell.It was a Sunday afternoon, and Puss was
entertaining, as usual, a whole parlor-full of young men, whose leanings
and sympathies Stephen divined while taking off his coat in the hall.Then he heard Miss Russell cry:

"I believe that they are drilling those nasty Dutch hirelings in
secret.""I am sure they are," said George Catherwood."One of the halls is on
Twelfth Street, and they have sentries posted out so that you can't get
near them.And he told him that if
he ever got evidence of it, he'd show him the door.""Do you really think that Tom is with the Yankees?""Tom's a fool," said George, with emphasis, "but he isn't a coward.He'd just as soon tell Pa to-morrow that he was drilling if the Yankee
leaders wished it known.""Virginia will never speak to him again," said Eugenie, in an awed
voice.said Puss, "Tom never had a chance with Jinny.Did you ever know any one to change so,
since this military business has begun?I hear
that they are thinking of making him captain of a company of dragoons.""And that is the company I intend to join.""Well," began Puss, with her usual recklessness, "it's a good thing for
Clarence that all this is happening.I know somebody else--"

Poor Stephen in the hall knew not whether to stay or fly.Emily Russell came down the stairs at that instant
and spoke to him.As the two entered the parlor, there was a hush
pregnant with many things unsaid.Puss's face was scarlet, but her hand
was cold as she held it out to him.For the first time in that house
he felt like an intruder.Jack Brinsmade bowed with great ceremony,
and took his departure.There was scarcely a distant cordiality in
the greeting of the other young men.And Puss, whose tongue was loosed
again, talked rapidly of entertainments to which Stephen either had not
been invited, or from which he had stayed away.The rest of the company
were almost moodily silent.Profoundly depressed, Stephen sat straight in the velvet chair, awaiting
a seasonable time to bring his visit to a close.This was to be the last, then, of his intercourse with a warmhearted
and lovable people.This was to be the end of his friendship with this
impetuous and generous girl who had done so much to brighten his life
since he had come to St: Louis.Henceforth this house would be shut to
him, and all others save Mr.Presently, in one of the intervals of Miss Russell's feverish talk,
he rose to go.Dusk was gathering, and a deep and ominous silence
penetrated like the shadows into the tall room.Impulsively, almost tearfully, Puss put her hand in his.Then she
pressed it unexpectedly, so that he had to gulp down a lump that was in
his throat.Just then a loud cry was heard from without, the men jumped
from their chairs, and something heavy dropped on the carpet.Some ran to the window, others to the door.Directly across the street
was the house of Mr.One of the third
story windows was open, and out of it was pouring a mass of gray wood
smoke.George Catherwood was the first to speak."I hope it will burn down," he cried.Stephen picked up the object on the floor, which had dropped from his
pocket, and handed it to him.THE GUNS OF SUMTER

Winter had vanished.Toward a little island
set in the blue waters of Charleston harbor anxious eyes were strained.God alone may count the wives and mothers who listened in the still
hours of the night for the guns of Sumter.One sultry night in April
Stephen's mother awoke with fear in her heart, for she had heard them.that is the roar now, faint but sullen.That is the red flash
far across the black Southern sky.For in our beds are the terrors and
cruelties of life revealed to us.There is a demon to be faced, and
nought alone.The lightning revealed her as she bent over him.On the wings of memory be flew back to his childhood in the great Boston
house with the rounded front, and he saw the nursery with its high
windows looking out across the Common.Often in the dark had she come to
him thus, her gentle hand passing over aim to feel if he were covered.She said: "Stephen, I am afraid that the war has come."Even he did not guess the agony in her heart.We have nothing left but the little I
earn.And if I were--" He did not finish the sentence, for he felt her
trembling.But she said again, with that courage which seems woman's
alone:

"Remember Wilton Brice.It was the hour he had dreaded, stolen suddenly upon him out of the
night.How many times had he rehearsed this scene to himself!He,
Stephen Brice, who had preached and slaved and drilled for the Union,
a renegade to be shunned by friend and foe alike!He had talked for his
country, but he would not risk his life for it.He saw them passing him silently on the street.Shamefully
he remembered the time, five months agone, when he had worn the very
uniform of his Revolutionary ancestor.And high above the tier of his
accusers he saw one face, and the look of it stung to the very quick of
his soul.Before the storm he had fallen asleep in sheer weariness of the
struggle, that face shining through the black veil of the darkness.If
he were to march away in the blue of his country (alas, not of hers!)she would respect him for risking life for conviction.If he stayed at
home, she would not understand.And
yet he knew that Virginia Carvel and the women like her were ready to
follow with bare feet the march of the soldiers of the South.The rain was come now, in a flood.Stephen's mother could not see in the
blackness the bitterness on his face.Above the roar of the waters she
listened for his voice."I will not go, mother," he said."If at length every man is needed,
that will be different.""It is for you to decide, my son," she answered."There are many ways in
which you can serve your country here.But remember that you may have to
face hard things.""I have had to do that before, mother," he replied calmly."I cannot
leave you dependent upon charity."She went back into her room to pray, for she knew that he had laid his
ambition at her feet.It was not until a week later that the dreaded news came.All through
the Friday shells had rained on the little fort while Charleston looked
on.Through a wide land was that numbness which
precedes action.Force of habit sent men to their places of business,
to sit idle.South
Carolina had shot to bits the flag she had once revered.On the Monday came the call of President Lincoln for volunteers.The outraged reply of her governor
went back,--never would she furnish troops to invade her sister states.Little did Governor Jackson foresee that Missouri was to stand fifth of
all the Union in the number of men she was to give.To her was credited
in the end even more men than stanch Massachusetts.The noise of preparation was in the city--in the land.On the Monday
morning, when Stephen went wearily to the office, he was met by Richter
at the top of the stairs, who seized his shoulders and looked into his
face.The light of the zealot was on Richter's own."We shall drill every night now, my friend, until further orders.Until we go to the front, Stephen, to put down
rebellion."Stephen sank into a chair, and bowed his head.What would
he think,--this man who had fought and suffered and renounced his native
land for his convictions?Who in this nobler allegiance was ready to die
for them?How was he to confess to Richter, of all men?"Carl," he said at length, "I--I cannot go."But Richter, suddenly divining, laid his hands
impulsively on Stephen's shoulders."Ach, I see," he said.It shall be
for your mother while you are away."Then, in spite of
his feelings, he stared at the German with a new appreciation of his
character.implored Richter, "I would give a fortune, if
I had it.Ah, my friend, that would please me so.And I do not need the
money now.Spring was in the air; the first faint smell of verdure wafted across
the river on the wind.Stephen turned to the open window, tears of
intense agony in his eyes.In that instant he saw the regiment marching,
and the flag flying at its head."It is my duty to stay here, Carl," he said brokenly.Richter took an appealing step toward him and stopped.He realized that
with this young New Englander a decision once made was unalterable.In
all his knowledge of Stephen he never remembered him to change.With the
demonstrative sympathy of his race, he yearned to comfort him, and knew
not how.Two hundred years of Puritanism had reared barriers not to be
broken down.At the end of the office the stern figure of the Judge appeared.Stephen followed him into the littered room behind the ground glass
door, scarce knowing what to expect,--and scarce caring, as on that
first day he had gone in there.Whipple himself closed the door, and
then the transom.Stephen felt those keen eyes searching him from their
hiding-place.Brice," he said at last, "the President has called for seventy-five
thousand volunteers to crush this rebellion.They will go, and be
swallowed up, and more will go to fill their places.Brice, people
will tell you that the war will be over in ninety days.But I tell you,
sir, that it will not be over in seven times ninety days."He brought
down his fist heavily upon the table."This, sir, will be a war to the
death.One side or the other will fight until their blood is all let,
and until their homes are all ruins."He darted at Stephen one look from
under those fierce eyebrows."No, sir," he answered, steadily, "not
now."Then he began what seemed a never-ending search
among the papers on his desk.At length he drew out a letter, put on his
spectacles and read it, and finally put it down again.Whipple, "you are doing a courageous thing.But if
we elect to follow our conscience in this world, we must not expect to
escape persecution, sir.Two weeks ago," he continued slowly, "two weeks
ago I had a letter from Mr.cried Stephen

The Judge smiled a little.Lincoln never forgets any one," said
he."He wishes me to extend to you his thanks for your services to the
Republican party, and sends you his kindest regards."This was the first and only time that Mr.Whipple spoke to him of his
labors.Stephen has often laughed at this since, and said that he
would not have heard of them at all had not the Judge's sense of duty
compelled him to convey the message.And it was with a lighter heart
than he had felt for many a day that he went out of the door.Some weeks later, five regiments were mustered into the service of the
United States.And in response to his
appeals, despite the presence of officers of higher rank, the President
had given Captain Nathaniel Lyon supreme command in Missouri.Stephen stood among the angry, jeering crowd that lined the streets as
the regiments marched past.Their step was not as steady, nor their files as straight
as Company A. There was Richter, his head high, his blue eyes defiant.And there was little Tiefel marching in that place of second lieutenant
that Stephen himself should have filled.Here was another company,
and at the end of the first four, big Tom Catherwood.His father
had disowned him the day before, His two brothers, George and little
Spencer, were in a house not far away--a house from which a strange flag
drooped.Clouds were lowering over the city, and big drops falling, as Stephen
threaded his way homeward, the damp anal gloom of the weather in his
very soul.He went past the house where the strange flag hung against
its staff In that big city it flaunted all unchallenged.The house
was thrown wide open that day, and in its window lounged young men of
honored families.And while they joked of German boorishness and Yankee
cowardice they held rifles across their knees to avenge any insult to
the strange banner that they had set up.In the hall, through the open
doorway, the mouth of a shotted field gun could be seen.The guardians
were the Minute Men, organized to maintain the honor and dignity of the
state of Missouri.Across the street from the house was gathered a knot of curious people,
and among these Stephen paused.Two young men were standing on the
steps, and one was Clarence Colfax.His hands were in his pockets, and
a careless, scornful smile was on his face when he glanced down into the
street.Anger swept over him in a hot flame,
as at the slave auction years agone.That was the unquenchable fire of
the war.The blood throbbed in his temples as his feet obeyed,--and yet
he stopped.What right had he to pull down that flag, to die on the pavement before
that house?CAMP JACKSON

What enthusiasm on that gusty Monday morning, the Sixth of May, 1861!Twelfth Street to the north of the Market House is full three hundred
feet across, and the militia of the Sovereign State of Missouri is
gathering there.Thence by order of her Governor they are to march to
Camp Jackson for a week of drill and instruction.Half a mile nearer the river, on the house of the Minute Men, the
strange flag leaps wildly in the wind this day.On Twelfth Street the sun is shining, drums are beating, and bands
are playing, and bright aides dashing hither and thither on spirited
chargers.One by one the companies are marching up, and taking place in
line; the city companies in natty gray fatigue, the country companies
often in their Sunday clothes.But they walk with heads erect and chests
out, and the ladies wave their gay parasols and cheer them.Louis Grays, Company A; there come the Washington
Guards and Washington Blues, and Laclede Guards and Missouri Guards and
Davis Guards.Yes, this is Secession Day, this Monday.And the colors
are the Stars and Stripes and the Arms of Missouri crossed.A clatter and a
cloud of dust by the market place, an ecstasy of cheers running in waves
the length of the crowd.Here they come
at last, four and four, the horses prancing and dancing and pointing
quivering ears at the tossing sea of hats and parasols and ribbons.Maude Catherwood squeezes Virginia's arm.There, riding in front, erect
and firm in the saddle, is Captain Clarence Colfax.Virginia is red and
white, and red again,--true colors of the Confederacy.Oh, that was his true
calling, a soldier's life.In that moment she saw him at the head of
armies, from the South, driving the Yankee hordes northward and still
northward until the roar of the lakes warns them of annihilation.Down to a trot they slow, Clarence's black thorough-bred arching his
long neck, proud as his master of the squadron which follows, four and
four.The square young man of bone and sinew in the first four, whose
horse is built like a Crusader's, is George Catherwood.And Eugenie
gives a cry and points to the rear where Maurice is riding.Can the Yankee regiments with their
slouchy Dutchmen hope to capture it!If there are any Yankees in Twelfth
Street that day, they are silent.And there are
some, even in the ranks of this Militia--who will fight for the Union.There is another wait, the companies standing at ease.Some of the
dragoons dismount, but not the handsome young captain, who rides
straight to the bright group which has caught his eye, Colonel Carvel
wrings his gauntleted hand."Clarence, we are proud of you, sir," he says.And Virginia, repeats his words, her eyes sparkling, her fingers
caressing the silken curve of Jefferson's neck."Clarence, you will drive Captain Lyon and his Hessians into the river.""Hush, Jinny," he answered, "we are merely going into camp to learn to
drill, that we may be ready to defend the state when the time comes.""You will have your cousin court-martialed, my dear," said the Colonel.But he must needs press Virginia's hand
first, and allow admiring Maude and Eugenie to press his.Then he goes
off at a slow canter to join his dragoons, waving his glove at them, and
turning to give the sharp order, "Attention"!Once more she has swept from her heart
every vestige of doubt.Chosen
unanimously captain of the Squadron but a few days since, Clarence had
taken command like a veteran.George Catherwood and Maurice had told the
story.And now at last the city is to shake off the dust of the North.The bands are started, the general and
staff begin to move, and the column swings into the Olive Street road,
followed by a concourse of citizens awheel and afoot, the horse cars
crowded.Virginia and Maude and the Colonel in the Carvel carriage, and
behind Ned, on the box, is their luncheon in a hamper Standing up, the
girls can just see the nodding plumes of the dragoons far to the front.Olive Street, now paved with hot granite and disfigured by trolley
wires, was a country road then.Green trees took the place of crowded
rows of houses and stores, and little "bob-tail" yellow cars were drawn
by plodding mules to an inclosure in a timbered valley, surrounded by
a board fence, known as Lindell Grove.It was then a resort, a picnic
ground, what is now covered by close residences which have long shown
the wear of time.Into Lindell Grove flocked the crowd, the rich and the poor, the
proprietor and the salesmen, to watch the soldiers pitch their tents
under the spreading trees.The gallant dragoons were off to the west,
across a little stream which trickled through the grounds.By the side
of it Virginia and Maude, enchanted, beheld Captain Colfax shouting
his orders while his troopers dragged the canvas from the wagons, and
staggered under it to the line.The
Captain lost his temper, his troopers, perspiring over Gordian knots in
the ropes, uttered strange soldier oaths, while the mad wind which blew
that day played a hundred pranks.To the discomfiture of the young ladies, Colonel Carvel pulled his
goatee and guffawed."How mean, Pa," she said indignantly."How car, you expect them to do it
right the first day, and in this wind?""He is pulled
over on his head."And the gentlemen and ladies who were standing by
laughed, too."You will see that they can fight," she said."They can beat the Yankees
and Dutch."This speech made the Colonel glance around him: Then he smiled,--in
response to other smiles."My dear," he said, "you must remember that this is a peaceable camp of
instruction of the state militia.There fly the Stars and Stripes from
the general's tent.Do you see that they are above the state flag?Jinny stamped her foot

"Oh, I hate dissimulation," she cried, "Why can't we, say outright that
we are going to run that detestable Captain Lyon and his Yankees and
Hessians out of the Arsenal."She had forgotten that one of
her brothers was with the Yankees and Hessians."Why aren't women made generals and governors?""If we were," answered Virginia, "something might be accomplished.""Isn't Clarence enough of a fire-eater to suit you?"But the tents were pitched, and at that moment the young Captain was
seen to hand over his horse to an orderly, and to come toward them.He
was followed by George Catherwood."Come, Jinny," cried her cousin, "let us go over to the main camp.""And walk on Davis Avenue," said Virginia, flushing with pride."Yes, and a Lee Avenue, and a Beauregard Avenue," said George, taking
his sister's arm."We shall walk in them all," said Virginia.The rustling trees and the young grass
of early May, and the two hundred and forty tents in lines of military
precision.Up and down the grassy streets flowed the promenade, proud
fathers and mothers, and sweethearts and sisters and wives in gala
dress.Wear your bright gowns now, you devoted women.The day is coming
when you will make them over and over again, or tear them to lint, to
stanch the blood of these young men who wear their new gray so well.Every afternoon Virginia drove with her father and her aunt to Camp
Jackson.All the fashion and beauty of the city were there.The bands
played, the black coachmen flecked the backs of their shining horses,
and walking in the avenues or seated under the trees were natty young
gentlemen in white trousers and brass-buttoned jackets.All was not
soldier fare at the regimental messes.Cakes and jellies and even ices
and more substantial dainties were laid beneath those tents.Dress
parade was one long sigh of delight: Better not to have been born than
to have been a young man in St.Louis, early in Camp Jackson week, and
not be a militiaman.One young man whom we know, however, had little of pomp and vanity
about him,--none other than the young manager (some whispered "silent
partner") of Carvel & Company.Eliphalet had had political
ambition, or political leanings, during the half-year which had just
passed, he had not shown them.Cluyme (no mean business man himself)
had pronounced Eliphalet a conservative young gentleman who attended
to his own affairs and let the mad country take care of itself.Seeing a regiment of
Missouri Volunteers slouching down Fifth street in citizens' clothes he
had been remarked to smile cynically.But he kept his opinions so close
that he was supposed not to have any.On Thursday of Camp Jackson week, an event occurred in Mr.Carvel's
store which excited a buzz of comment.Barbo, the book-keeper, that he should not be there after four o'clock.To be sure, times were more than dull.The Colonel that morning had read
over some two dozen letters from Texas and the Southwest, telling of the
impossibility of meeting certain obligations in the present state of the
country.The Colonel had gone home to dinner with his brow furrowed.Hopper's equanimity was spoken of at the widow's
table.Hopper took an Olive Street car, tucking himself
into the far corner where he would not be disturbed by any ladies who
might enter.In the course of an hour or so, he alighted at the western
gate of the camp on the Olive Street road.Refreshing himself with a
little tobacco, he let himself be carried leisurely by the crowd between
the rows of tents.A philosophy of his own (which many men before and
since have adopted) permitted him to stare with a superior good nature
at the open love-making around him.He imagined his own figure,--which
was already growing a little stout,--in a light gray jacket and duck
trousers, and laughed.Eliphalet was not burdened with illusions of that
kind.These heroes might have their hero-worship.As he was sauntering toward a deserted seat at the foot of a tree, it so
chanced that he was overtaken by Mr.Only
that morning, this gentleman, in glancing through the real estate column
of his newspaper, had fallen upon a deed of sale which made him wink.He
reminded his wife that Mr.Hopper had not been to supper of late.Cluyme held out his hand with more than common cordiality.Hopper took it, the fingers did not close any too tightly over his own.But it may be well to remark that Mr.Hopper himself did not do any
squeezing.He took off his hat grudgingly to Miss Belle."I hope you will take pot luck with us soon again, Mr."We only have plain and simple things, but they are
wholesome, sir.Dainties are poor things to work on.I told that to his
Royal Highness when he was here last fall.He was speaking to me on the
merits of roast beef--"

"It's a fine day," said Mr.Letting his gaze wander over the camp,
he added casually, "I see that they have got a few mortars and howitzers
since yesterday.I suppose that is the stuff we heard so much about,
which came on the 'Swon' marked'marble.'They say Jeff Davis sent the
stuff to 'em from the Government arsenal the Secesh captured at Baton
Rouge.They're pretty near ready to move on our arsenal now."He was not greatly interested in
this matter which had stirred the city to the quick.Cluyme spoken as one who was deeply moved.Just then, as if to spare the
pains of a reply, a "Jenny Lind" passed them.Miss Belle recognized the
carriage immediately as belonging to an elderly lady who was well known
in St.Every day she drove out, dressed in black bombazine, and
heavily veiled.As the mother-in-law of the stalwart
Union leader of the city, Miss Belle's comment about her appearance in
Camp Jackson was not out of place.she exclaimed, "I'd like to know what she's doing here!"Hopper's answer revealed a keenness which, in the course of a few
days, engendered in Mr.Cluyme as lusty a respect as he was capable of."I don't know," said Eliphalet; "but I cal'late she's got stouter.""That Union principles must be healthy," said he, and laughed.Miss Cluyme was prevented from following up this enigma.The appearance
of two people on Davis Avenue drove the veiled lady from her mind.Eliphalet, too, had seen them.One was the tall young Captain of
Dragoons, in cavalry boots, and the other a young lady with dark brown
hair, in a lawn dress."They think they are alone in the
garden of Eden.But since he's
a captain, and has got a uniform, she's come round pretty quick.I'm
thankful I never had any silly notions about uniforms."She glanced at Eliphalet, to find that his eyes were fixed on the
approaching couple."Clarence is handsome, but worthless," she continued in her sprightly
way."I believe Jinny will be fool enough to marry him.Do you think
she's so very pretty, Mr."Neither do I," Miss Belle assented.And upon that, greatly to
the astonishment of Eliphalet, she left him and ran towards them.she cried; "Jinny, I have something so interesting to tell
you!"The look she bestowed upon Miss Cluyme was
not one of welcome, but Belle was not sensitive.Putting her arm through
Virginia's, she sauntered off with the pair toward the parade grounds,
Clarence maintaining now a distance of three feet, and not caring to
hide his annoyance.Eliphalet's eyes smouldered, following the three until they were lost
in the crowd.That expression of Virginia's had reminded him of a
time, years gone, when she had come into the store on her return from
Kentucky, and had ordered him to tell her father of her arrival.And Eliphalet was not the sort to get over smarts.She has wealth, and manners,
and looks.Too bad he holds such views
on secession.I have always thought, sir, that you were singularly
fortunate in your connection with him."There was a point of light now in each of Mr.Cluyme continued:

"What a pity, I say, that he should run the risk of crippling himself by
his opinions."And southwestern notes are not worth the paper they are written on--"

But Mr.Cluyme has misjudged his man.If he had come to Eliphalet for
information of Colonel Carvel's affairs, or of any one else's affairs,
he was not likely to get it.It is not meet to repeat here the long
business conversation which followed.Cluyme,
who was in dry goods himself, was as ignorant when he left Eliphalet
as when he met him.But he had a greater respect than ever for the
shrewdness of the business manager of Carvel & Company..........................

That same Thursday, when the first families of the city were whispering
jubilantly in each other's ears of the safe arrival of the artillery and
stands of arms at Camp Jackson, something of significance was happening
within the green inclosure of the walls of the United States arsenal,
far to the southward.The days had become alike in sadness to Stephen.Richter gone, and the
Judge often away in mysterious conference, he was left for hours at
a spell the sole tenant of the office.Fortunately there was work of
Richter's and of Mr.Whipple's left undone that kept him busy.This
Thursday morning, however, he found the Judge getting into that best
black coat which he wore on occasions.His manner had recently lost much
of its gruffness."Stephen," said he, "they are serving out cartridges and uniforms to the
regiments at the arsenal.asked Stephen, when they had reached the
street."Captain Lyon is not the man to sit still and let the Governor take the
first trick, sir," said the Judge.As they got on the Fifth Street car, Stephen's attention was at once
attracted to a gentleman who sat in a corner, with his children about
him.He was lean, and he had a face of great keenness and animation.He
had no sooner spied Judge Whipple than he beckoned to him with a kind of
military abruptness."That is Major William T. Sherman," said the Judge to Stephen."He
used to be in the army, and fought in the Mexican War.He came here two
months ago to be the President of this Fifth Street car line."They crossed over to him, the Judge introducing Stephen to Major
Sherman, who looked at him very hard, and then decided to bestow on him
a vigorous nod."Well, Whipple," he said, "this nation is going to the devil; eh?"For it was a bold man who expressed
radical opinions (provided they were not Southern opinions) in a St."Who's man enough in Washington
to shake his fist in a rebel's face?Our leniency--our timidity--has
paralyzed us, sir."By this time those in the car began to manifest considerable interest in
the conversation.Major Sherman paid them no attention, and the Judge,
once launched in an argument, forgot his surroundings."Seventy-five thousand for three months!"said the Major, vehemently,
"a bucketful on a conflagration I tell you, Whipple, we'll need all the
water we've got in the North."The Judge expressed his belief in this, and also that Mr.Lincoln would
draw all the water before he got through.Now's the time to stop
'em.The longer we let 'em rear and kick, the harder to break 'em.You
don't catch me going back to the army for three months.If they want me,
they've got to guarantee me three years.Turning
to Stephen, he added: "Don't you sign any three months' contract, young
man."By this time the car was full, and silent.No one had
offered to quarrel with the Major.Nor did it seem likely that any one
would."I'm afraid I can't go, sir.""Because, sir," said the Judge, bluntly, "his mother's a widow, and they
have no money.He was a lieutenant in one of Blair's companies before
the call came."The Major looked at Stephen, and his expression changed.Stephen's expression must have satisfied him, but he nodded again, more
vigorously than before.But he hoped to fall out of the talk.Much to his
discomfiture, the Major gave him another of those queer looks.His whole
manner, and even his appearance, reminded Stephen strangely of Captain
Elijah Brent."Aren't you the young man who made the Union speech in Mercantile
Library Hall?"At that the Major put out his hand impulsively, and gripped Stephen's."Well, sir," he said, "I have yet to read a more sensible speech, except
some of Abraham Lincoln's.Brinsmade gave it to me to read.Whipple,
that speech reminded me of Lincoln.Lincoln's debate with Judge Douglas at 'Freeport," said
Stephen; beginning to be amused."I admire your frankness, sir," he said."I meant to say that its logic
rather than its substance reminded one of Lincoln.""I tried to learn what I could from him, Major Sherman."At length the car stopped, and they passed into the Arsenal grounds.Drawn up in lines on the green grass were four regiments, all at last
in the blue of their country's service.Old soldiers with baskets of
cartridges were stepping from file to file, giving handfuls to the
recruits.Many of these thrust them in their pockets, for there were not
enough belts to go around.The men were standing at ease, and as Stephen
saw them laughing and joking lightheartedly his depression returned.It was driven away again by Major Sherman's vivacious comments.For
suddenly Captain Lyon, the man of the hour, came into view.cried the Major, "he's a man after my own heart.Just
look at him running about with his hair flying in the wind, and the
papers bulging from his pockets.But
this isn't the time to be dignified.If there were some like Lyon in
Washington, our troops would be halfway to New Orleans by this time.The gallant Captain was a sight, indeed, and vividly described by Major
Sherman's picturesque words as he raced from regiment to regiment,
and from company to company, with his sandy hair awry, pointing,
gesticulating, commanding.In him Stephen recognized the force that had
swept aside stubborn army veterans of wavering faith, that snapped the
tape with which they had tied him.Would he be duped by the Governor's ruse of establishing a State Camp at
this time?Stephen, as he gazed at him, was sure that he would not.This
man could see to the bottom, through every specious argument.Little
matters of law and precedence did not trouble him.Nor did he believe
elderly men in authority when they told gravely that the state troops
were there for peace.After the ranks were broken, Major Sherman and the Judge went to talk to
Captain Lyon and the Union Leader, who was now a Colonel of one of
the Volunteer regiments.Stephen sought Richter, who told him that the
regiments were to assemble the morning of the morrow, prepared to march."We are not consulted, my friend," he said."Will you come into my
quarters and have a bottle of beer with Tiefel?"It was not their fault that his sense at their comradeship
was gone.To him it was as if the ties that had bound him to them were
asunder, and he was become an outcast.THE STONE THAT IS REJECTED

That Friday morning Stephen awoke betimes with a sense that something
was to happen.For a few moments he lay still in the half comprehension
which comes after sleep when suddenly he remembered yesterday's
incidents at the Arsenal, and leaped out of bed."I think that Lyon is going to attack Camp Jackson to-day," he said to
his mother after breakfast, when Hester had left the room."I went down to the Arsenal with the Judge yesterday and saw them
finishing the equipment of the new regiments.Any one could see that from the way Lyon was flying about.I think he
must have proof that the Camp Jackson people have received supplies from
the South."Brice looked fixedly at her son, and then smiled in spite of the
apprehension she felt."Is that why you were working over that map of the city last night?""I was trying to see how Lyon would dispose his troops.I meant to tell
you about a gentleman we met in the street car, a Major Sherman who used
to be in the army.Brinsmade knows him, and Judge Whipple, and many
other prominent men here.Louis some months ago to take
the position of president of the Fifth Street Line.He is the keenest,
the most original man I have ever met.As long as I live I shall never
forget his description of Lyon.""Is the Major going back into the army?"Brice, Stephen
did not remark the little falter in her voice.He laughed over the
recollection of the conversation in the street car."Not unless matters in Washington change to suit him," he said."He
thinks that things have been very badly managed, and does not scruple
to say so anywhere.I could not have believed it possible that two men
could have talked in public as he and Judge Whipple did yesterday and
not be shot down.I thought that it was as much as a man's life is worth
to mention allegiance to the Union here in a crowd.Sherman pitched into the Rebels in that car full of people was enough to
make your hair stand on end.""He must be a bold man," murmured Mrs."Does he think that the--the Rebellion can be put down?""Not with seventy-five thousand men, nor with ten times that number."Brice sighed, and furtively wiped her eyes with her handkerchief."I am afraid we shall see great misery, Stephen," she said.From that peaceful little room war and its horrors seemed
very far away.The morning sun poured in through the south windows and
was scattered by the silver on the sideboard.From above, on the wall,
Colonel Wilton Brice gazed soberly down.Stephen's eyes lighted on the
portrait, and his thoughts flew back to the boyhood days when he used to
ply his father with questions about it.Then the picture had suggested
only the glory and honor which illumines the page of history.Something
worthy to look back upon, to keep ones head high.The hatred and the
suffering and the tears, the heartrending, tearing apart for all time of
loving ones who have grown together,--these were not upon that canvas,
Will war ever be painted with a wart?The sound of feet was heard on the pavement.Stephen rose, glancing at
his mother."I am going to the Arsenal," he said.To her, as has been said, was given wisdom beyond most women.She did
not try to prevent him as he kissed her good-by.But when the door had
shut behind him, a little cry escaped her, and she ran to the window to
strain her eyes after him until he had turned the corner below.His steps led him irresistibly past the house of the strange flag,
ominously quiet at that early hour.At sight of it anger made him hot
again.Louis stood at the end of the line, fast
filling with curious people who had read in their papers that morning of
the equipment of the new troops.There was little talk among them, and
that little guarded.It was a May morning to rouse a sluggard; the night air tingled into
life at the touch of the sunshine, the trees in the flitting glory
of their first green.Stephen found the shaded street in front of the
Arsenal already filled with an expectant crowd.Sharp commands broke the
silence, and he saw the blue regiments forming on the lawn inside the
wall.Truly, events were in the air,--great events in which he had no
part.As he stood leaning against a tree-box by the curb, dragged down once
more by that dreaded feeling of detachment, he heard familiar voices
close beside him.Leaning forward, he saw Eliphalet Hopper and Mr.Hopper," he said, "in spite of what you say, I expect you
are dust as eager as I am to see what is going on.You've taken an early
start this morning for sightseeing."Eliphalet's equanimity was far from shaken."I don't cal'late to take a great deal of stock in the military," he
answered.And a man must keep an eye on what
is moving."Cluyme ran his hand through his chop whiskers, and lowered his
voice."You're right, Hopper," he assented."And if this city is going to be
Union, we ought to know it right away."Stephen, listening with growing indignation to this talk, was unaware of
a man who stood on the other side of the tree, and who now came forward
before Mr."My friend," said the stranger, quietly, "I think we have met before,
when your actions were not greatly to your credit.I do not forget a
face, even when I see it in the dark.Now I hear you utter words which
are a disgrace to a citizen of the United States.As soon as Stephen recovered from the shock of his surprise, he saw that
Eliphalet had changed countenance.The manner of an important man of
affairs, which he hay so assiduously cultivated, fell away from him.He
took a step backward, and his eyes made an ugly shift.Stephen rejoiced
to see the stranger turn his back on the manager of Carvel & Company
before that dignitary had time to depart, and stand unconcernedly there
as if nothing had occurred.He was not a man you would look at twice, ordinarily, he was smoking a
great El Sol cigar.He wore clothes that were anything but new, a slouch
hat, and coarse grained, square-toed boots.His trousers were creased at
the knees.His head fell forward a little from his square shoulders, and
leaned a bit to one side, as if meditatively.He had a light brown beard
that was reddish in the sun, and he was rather short than otherwise.And yet the very plainness of the man's
appearance only added to his curiosity.His
words, his action, too, had been remarkable.The art of administering
a rebuke like that was not given to many men.It was perfectly quiet,
perfectly final.And then, when it was over, he had turned his back and
dismissed it.Next Stephen began to wonder what he could know about Hopper.Stephen
had suspected Eliphalet of subordinating principles to business gain,
and hence the conversation with Mr.Cluyme had given him no shock in
the way of a revelation, But if Hopper were a rogue, ought not Colonel
Carvel to hear it?Ought not he, Stephen Brice, to ask this man with the
cigar what he knew, and tell Judge Whipple?The sudden rattle of drums
gave him a start, and cruelly reminded him of the gulf of prejudice and
hatred fast widening between the friends.All this time the stranger stood impassively chewing his cigar, his hand
against the tree-box.A regiment in column came out of the Arsenal gate,
the Union leader in his colonel's uniform, on horseback at its head.He pulled up in the street opposite to Stephen, and sat in his saddle,
chatting with other officers around him.Then the stranger stepped across the limestone gutter and walked up
to the Colonel's horse, He was still smoking.This move, too, was
surprising enough, It argued even more assurance."Colonel Blair, my name is Grant," he said briefly.The Colonel faced quickly about, and held out his gloved hand cordially,
"Captain Ulysses Grant," said he; "of the old army?""I wanted to wish you luck," he said."Thank you, Grant," answered the Colonel."I moved to Illinois after I left here," replied Mr.Grant, as quietly
as before, "and have been in Galena, in the Leather business there.I
went down to Springfield with the company they organized in Galena, to
be of any help I could.They made me a clerk in the adjutant general's
office of the state I ruled blanks, and made out forms for a while."He
paused, as if to let the humble character of this position sink into
the Colonel's comprehension."Then they found out that I'd been
quartermaster and commissary, and knew something about military orders
Now I'm a state mustering officer.I came down to Belleville to muster
in a regiment, which wasn't ready.And so I ran over here to see what
you fellows were doing."If this humble account had been delivered volubly, and in another tone,
it is probable that the citizen-colonel would not have listened, since
the events of that day were to crown his work of a winter.Grant
possessed a manner of holding attention.. It was very evident, however;
that Colonel Blair had other things to think of.Nevertheless he said
kindly:

"Aren't you going in, Grant?""I can't afford to go in as a captain of volunteers," was the calm
reply: "I served nine years in the regular army and I think I can
command a regiment."The Colonel, whose attention was called away at that moment, did not
reply.Some of the younger officers
who were there, laughed as they followed his retreating figure.cried one, a lieutenant whom Stephen recognized
as having been a bookkeeper at Edwards, James, & Doddington's, and whose
stiff blue uniform coat creased awkwardly."I guess I'm about as fit to
command a regiment as Grant is.""That man's forty years old, if he's a day," put in another."I remember
when he came here to St.He'd resigned from
the army on the Pacific Coast.He put up a log cabin down on the Gravois
Road, and there he lived in the hardest luck of any man I ever saw until
last year."I spotted him by the El Sol cigar.He used to bring a
load of wood to the city once in a while, and then he'd go over to the
Planters' House, or somewhere else, and smoke one of these long fellows,
and sit against the wall as silent as a wooden Indian.After that he
came up to the city without his family and went into real estate one
winter.Curious, it is just a year ago this
month than he went over to Illinois.He's an honest fellow, and hard
working enough, but he don't know how.laughed the first, again, as of this in particular
had struck his sense of humor."I guess he won't get a regiment in a
hurry, There's lots of those military carpet-baggers hanging around for
good jobs now.""He might fool you fellows yet," said the one caller, though his tone
was not one of conviction."I understand he had a first-rate record an
the Mexican War."Just then an aide rode up, and the Colonel gave a sharp command which
put an end to this desultory talk.As the First Regiment took up
the march, the words "Camp Jackson" ran from mouth to mouth on the
sidewalks.Catching fire, Stephen ran with the crowd, and leaping on
passing street car, was borne cityward with the drums of the coming
hosts beating in his ears.In the city, shutters were going up on the stores.The streets were
filled with, restless citizens seeking news, and drays were halted here
and there on the corners, the white eyes and frenzied calls of the <DW64>
drivers betraying their excitement.While Stephen related to his mother
the events of the morning, Hester burned the dinner.It lay; still
untouched, on the table when the throbbing of drums sent them to the
front steps.Sigel's regiment had swung into the street, drawing in its
wake a seething crowd.Three persons came out of the big house next door.One was Anna
Brinsmade; and there was her father, his white hairs uncovered.His sister was cringing to him appealingly, and he
struggling in her grasp.Out of his coat pocket hung the curved butt of
a pepperbox revolver."Do you think I can stay here while my
people are shot down by a lot of damned Dutchman?"Brinsmade, sternly, "I cannot let you join a mob.I
cannot let you shoot at men who carry the Union flag.""You cannot prevent me, sir," shouted the young man, in a frenzy."When
foreigners take our flag for them own, it is time for us to shoot them
down."Wrenching himself free, he ran down the steps and up the street ahead of
the regiment.Then the soldiers and the noisy crowd were upon them and
while these were passing the two stood there as in a dream.After that
silence fell upon the street, and Mr.Brinsmade turned and went back
into the house, his head bowed as in prayer.Stephen and his mother drew
back, but Anne saw them."He is a rebel," she faltered.She looked at Stephen appealingly, unashamed of the tears in her eyes."I cannot stay here mother," he said.As he slammed the gate, Anne ran down the steps calling his name.He
paused, and she caught his sleeve."I knew you would go," she said, "I knew you would go.Oh, Stephen, you
have a cool head.But when he reached the corner and
looked back he saw that she had gone in at his own little gate to
meet his mother.Now and again he was
stopped by feverish questions, but at length he reached the top of the
second ridge from the river, along which crowded Eighteenth Street now
runs.Spencer Catherwood had
built two years before on the outskirts of the town, with the wall at
the side, and the brick stable and stable yard.As Stephen approached
it, the thought came to him how little this world's goods avail in times
of trouble.One of the big Catherwood boys was in the blue marching
regiment that day, and had been told by his father never again to darken
his doors.Another was in Clarence Colfax's company of dragoons, and
still another had fled southward the night after Sumter.Stephen stopped at the crest of the hill, in the white dust of the
new-turned street, to gaze westward.Clouds were gathering in the sky,
but the sun still shone brightly, Half way up the rise two blue lines
had crawled, followed by black splotches, and at the southwest was the
glint of the sun on rifle barrels.Directed by a genius in the art of
war, the regiments were closing about Camp Jackson.As he stood there meditating and paying no attention to those who
hurried past, a few familiar notes were struck on a piano.They came
through the wide-shuttered window above his head.Then a girl's voice
rose above the notes, in tones that were exultant:--

       "Away down South in de fields of cotton,
        Cinnamon seed and sandy bottom,
        Look away, look away, Look away, look away.Den I wish I was in Dixie's Land,
        Oh, oh!In Dixie's Land I'll take my stand,
        And live and die in Dixie's Land.The song ceased amid peals of girlish laughter.Jinny Carvel, how dare you!""We
shall have a whole regiment of Hessians in here."Old Uncle Ben, the Catherwoods' coachman, came out of the stable yard.The whites of his eyes were rolling, half in amusement, half in terror.Seeing Stephen standing there, he exclaimed:

"Mistah Brice, if de Dutch take Camp Jackson, is we <DW65>s gwinter be
free?"Stephen did not answer, for the piano had started again,

       "If ever I consent to be married,
        And who could refuse a good mate?The man whom I give my hand to,
        Must believe in the Rights of the State."Then the blinds were flung aside, and a young lady in
a dress of white trimmed with crimson stood in the window, smiling.For an
instant she stared at him, and then turned to the girls crowding behind
her.What she said, he did not wait to hear.THE TENTH OF MAY

Would the sons of the first families surrender, "Never!"cried a young
lady who sat behind the blinds in Mrs.It seemed to
her when she stopped to listen for the first guns of the coming battle
that the tumult in her heart would drown their roar."But, Jinny," ventured that Miss Puss Russell who never feared to speak
her mind, "it would be folly for them to fight.The Dutch and Yankees
outnumber them ten to one, and they haven't any powder and bullets.""And Camp Jackson is down in a hollow," said Maude Catherwood,
dejectedly.And yet hopefully, too, for at the thought of bloodshed she
was near to fainting."Oh," exclaimed Virginia, passionately, "I believe you want them to
surrender.I should rather see Clarence dead than giving his sword to a
Yankee."At that the other two were silent again, and sat on through an endless
afternoon of uncertainty and hope and dread in the darkened room.Catherwood's heavy step was heard as he paced the hall.From time to time they glanced at Virginia, as if to fathom her
thought.She and Puss Russell had come that day to dine with Maude.Catherwood's Ben, reeking of the stable, had brought the rumor of the
marching on the camp into the dining-room, and close upon the heels of
this the rumble of the drums and the passing of Sigel's regiment.It was
Virginia who had the presence of mind to slam the blinds in the faces of
the troops, and the crowd had cheered her.It was Virginia who flew to
the piano to play Dixie ere they could get by, to the awe and admiration
of the girls and the delight of Mr.Catherwood who applauded her spirit
despite the trouble which weighed upon him.Once more the crowd had
cheered,--and hesitated.But the Dutch regiment slouched on, impassive,
and the people followed.Virginia remained at the piano, her mood exalted patriotism, uplifted
in spirit by that grand song.At first she had played it with all her
might.She laughed in very scorn of the booby soldiers
she had seen.A million of these, with all the firearms in the world,
could not prevail against the flower of the South.Then she had begun
whimsically to sing a verse of a song she had heard the week before, and
suddenly her exaltation was fled, and her fingers left the keys.Gaining
the window, trembling, half-expectant, she flung open a blind.The troops, the people, were gone, and there alone in the road
stood--Stephen Brice.The others close behind her saw him, too, and Puss
cried out in her surprise.The impression, when the room was dark once
more, was of sternness and sadness,--and of strength.Effaced was the
picture of the plodding recruits with their coarse and ill-fitting
uniforms of blue.Not a word escaped her, nor could they tell
why--they did not dare to question her then.An hour passed, perhaps
two, before the shrill voice of a boy was heard in the street below.They heard the patter of his bare feet on the pavement, and the cry
repeated.Bitter before, now was she on fire.Close her lips as tightly as she might, the tears forced themselves to
her eyes.How hard it is for us of this age to understand that feeling.The girls gathered around her, pale and frightened and anxious.Suddenly
courage returned to her, the courage which made Spartans of Southern
women.Catherwood was on the sidewalk,
talking to a breathless man.Barbo, Colonel Carvel's
book-keeper."Yes," he was saying, "they--they surrendered.There was nothing else
for them to do.Catherwood from a kind of stupor."Virginia, we shall make them smart for this yet, My God!"he cried,
"what have I done that my son should be a traitor, in arms against his
own brother fighting for his people?To think that a Catherwood should
be with the Yankees!You, Ben," he shouted, suddenly perceiving an
object for his anger."What do you mean by coming out of the yard?By
G-d, I'll have you whipped.I'll show you <DW65>s whether you're to be
free or not."Catherwood was a good man, who treated his servants well.Suddenly he dropped Virginia's hand and ran westward down the hill.Well
that she could not see beyond the second rise.Let us stand on the little mound at
the northeast of it, on the Olive Street Road, whence Captain Lyon's
artillery commands it.Davis Avenue is
no longer a fashionable promenade, flashing with bright dresses.Those
quiet men in blue, who are standing beside the arms of the state troops,
stacked and surrendered, are United States regulars.They have been in
Kansas, and are used to scenes of this sort.The five Hessian regiments have surrounded the camp.Each commander
has obeyed the master mind of his chief, who has calculated the time
of marching with precision.Here, at the western gate, Colonel Blair's
regiment is in open order.See the prisoners taking their places between
the ranks, some smiling, as if to say all is not over yet; some with
heads hung down, in sulky shame.Still others, who are true to the
Union, openly relieved.But who is this officer breaking his sword to
bits against the fence, rather than surrender it to a Yankee?Listen to
the crowd as they cheer him.Listen to the epithets and vile names which
they hurl at the stolid blue line of the victors, "Mudsills!""<DW64>
Worshippers."Yes, the crowd is there, seething with conflicting passions.Men with
brows bent and fists clenched, yelling excitedly.Others pushing, and
eager to see,--there in curiosity only.And, alas, women and children
by the score, as if what they looked upon were not war, but a parade,
a spectacle.As the gray uniforms file out of the gate, the crowd has
become a mob, now flowing back into the fields on each side of the road,
now pressing forward vindictively until stopped by the sergeants and
corporals.Listen to them calling to sons, and brothers, and husbands in
gray!See, there is a woman who spits in a soldier's face!Throughout it all, the officers sit their horses, unmoved.A man on the
bank above draws a pistol and aims at a captain.A German private steps
from the ranks, forgetful of discipline, and points at the man, who is
cursing the captain's name.The captain, imperturbable, orders his man
back to his place.Now are the prisoners of that regiment all in place between the two
files of it.A band (one of those which played lightsome music on the
birthday of the camp) is marched around to the head of the column.The
regiment with its freight moves on to make place for a battalion of
regulars, amid imprecations and cries of "Hurrah for Jeff Davis!"Stephen Brice stood among the people in Lindell's Grove, looking up at
the troops on the road, which was on an embankment.Through the rows of
faces he had searched in vain for one.His motive he did not attempt
to fathom--in truth, he was not conscious at the time of any motive.He
heard the name shouted at the gate."Here they are,--the dragoons!Dismounted, at the head of his
small following, the young Captain walked erect.He did not seem to hear
the cheers.His face was set, and he held his gloved hand over the place
where his sword had been, as if over a wound.On his features, in his
attitude, was stamped the undying determination of the South.How those
thoroughbreds of the Cavaliers showed it!The
fire of humiliation burned, but could not destroy their indomitable
spirit.They were the first of their people in the field, and the last
to leave it.Historians may say that the classes of the South caused the
war; they cannot say that they did not take upon themselves the greatest
burden of the suffering.Twice that day was the future revealed to Stephen.Once as he stood
on the hill-crest, when he had seen a girl in crimson and white in
a window,--in her face.And now again he read it in the face of her
cousin.It was as if he had seen unrolled the years of suffering that
were to come.In that moment of deep bitterness his reason wavered.Surely there was no such feeling in the North as these
people betrayed.That most dangerous of gifts, the seeing of two
sides of a quarrel, had been given him.He
sympathized with the Southern people.They had befriended him in his
poverty.Why had he not been born, like Clarence Colfax, the owner of a
large plantation, the believer in the divine right of his race to rule?Would that his path had been as
straight, his duty as easy, as that of the handsome young Captain.Presently these thoughts were distracted by the sight of a back
strangely familiar.The back belonged to a gentleman who was
energetically climbing the embankment in front of him, on the top
of which Major Sexton, a regular, army officer, sat his horse.The
gentleman was pulling a small boy after him by one hand, and held a
newspaper tightly rolled in the other.Stephen smiled to himself when it
came over him that this gentleman was none other than that Mr.William
T. Sherman he had met in the street car the day before.Somehow Stephen
was fascinated by the decision and energy of Mr.He gave Major Saxton a salute, quick and genial.Then, almost
with one motion he unrolled the newspaper, pointed to a paragraph, and
handed it to the officer.Major Saxton was still reading when a drunken
ruffian clambered up the bank behind them and attempted to pass through
the lines.Sherman slid down the
bank with his boy into the grove beside Stephen.A corporal pitched the drunkard backwards over the bank, and
he rolled at Mr.With a curse, he picked himself up,
fumbling in his pocket.There was a flash, and as the smoke rolled from
before his eyes, Stephen saw a man of a German regiment stagger and
fall.It was the signal for a rattle of shots.Stones and bricks filled the
air, and were heard striking steel and flesh in the ranks.The regiment
quivered,--then halted at the loud command of the officers, and the
ranks faced out with level guns, Stephen reached for Mr.Sherman's boy,
but a gentleman had already thrown him and was covering his body.He contrived to throw down a woman standing beside him before the
mini-balls swished over their heads, and the leaves and branches began
to fall.Between the popping of the shots sounded the shrieks of wounded
women and children, the groans and curses of men, and the stampeding of
hundreds.He was about to obey when a young; man, small and agile, ran past him
from behind, heedless of the panic.Stopping at the foot of the bank he
dropped on one knee, resting his revolver in the hollow of his left
arm.At the same time two of the soldiers above
lowered their barrels to cover him.When it
rolled away, Brinsmade lay on the ground.He staggered to his feet with
an oath, and confronted a young man who was hatless, and upon whose
forehead was burned a black powder mark.he cried, reaching out wildly, "curse you, you d--d Yankee.Maddened, he made a rush at Stephen's throat.But Stephen seized his
hands and bent them down, and held them firmly while he kicked and
struggled.he panted; "curse you, you let me go and I'll kill
you,--you Yankee upstart!"One of the
officers, seeing the struggle, started down the bank, was reviled, and
hesitated."Let him go, Brice," he said, in a tone of command.Whereupon Brinsmade made a dash for his pistol on the ground."Now see here, Jack," he said, picking it up, "I don't want to shoot
you, but I may have to.That young man saved your life at the risk of
his own.If that fool Dutchman had had a ball in his gun instead of a
wad, Mr.Brinsmade took one long look at Stephen,
turned on his heel, and walked off rapidly through the grove.And it may
be added that for some years after he was not seen in St.For a moment the other two stood staring after him.Sherman
took his boy by the hand.Brice," he said, "I've seen a few things done in my life, but
nothing better than this.Perhaps the day may come when you and I may
meet in the army.They don't seem to think much of us now," he added,
smiling, "but we may be of use to 'em later.If ever I can serve you,
Mr.Brice, I beg you to call on me."Sherman, nodding his head
vigorously, went away southward through the grove, toward Market Street.The dead were being laid in carriages, and the
wounded tended by such physicians as chanced to be on the spot.Stephen,
dazed at what had happened, took up the march to town.He strode faster
than the regiments with their load of prisoners, and presently he found
himself abreast the little file of dragoons who were guarded by some of
Blair's men.It was then that he discovered that the prisoners' band in
front was playing "Dixie."They are climbing the second hill, and are coming now to the fringe
of new residences which the rich citizens have built.In the windows and on the steps of others women are
crying or waving handkerchiefs and calling out to the prisoners, some
of whom are gay, and others sullen.A distracted father tries to break
through the ranks and rescue his son.Ah, here is the Catherwood house.Catherwood, with her hand on her husband's arm, with
red eyes, is scanning those faces for the sight of George.Will the Yankees murder him for treason,
or send him North to languish the rest of his life?James has,
across the street, and is even now being carried into the house.Few
of us can see into the hearts of those women that day, and speak of the
suffering there.His face is cast down as
he passes the house from which he is banished.Nor do father, or mother,
or sister in their agony make any sound or sign.The
welcome and the mourning and the tears are all for him.The band is playing "Dixie" once more.George is coming, and some one
else.The girls are standing in a knot bend the old people, dry-eyed,
their handkerchiefs in their hands.Some of the prisoners take off their
hats and smile at the young lady with the chiselled features and brown
hair, who wears the red and white of the South as if she were born to
them.Ah, at last she sees him, walking erect
at the head of his dragoons.He gives her one look of entreaty, and that
smile which should have won her heart long ago.As if by common consent
the heads of the troopers are uncovered before her.How bravely she
waves at them until they are gone down the street!Then only do her eyes
fill with tears, and she passes into the house.Had she waited, she might have seen a solitary figure leaving the line
of march and striding across to Pine Street.That night the sluices of the heavens were opened, and the blood was
washed from the grass in Lindell Grove.The rain descended in floods
on the distracted city, and the great river rose and flung brush from
Minnesota forests high up on the stones of the levee.Down in the long
barracks weary recruits, who had stood and marched all the day long,
went supperless to their hard pallets.Many a boy, prisoner or volunteer, sobbed
himself to sleep in the darkness.All were prisoners alike, prisoners
of war.Sobbed themselves to sleep, to dream of the dear homes that were
here within sight and sound of them, and to which they were powerless to
go.Sisters, and mothers, and wives were there, beyond the rain, holding
out arms to them.But what of
the long nights when husband and wife have lain side by side?What of
the children who ask piteously where their father is going, and who are
gathered by a sobbing mother to her breast?Where is the picture of that
last breakfast at home?So in the midst of the cheer which is saddest in
life comes the thought that, just one year ago, he who is the staff
of the house was wont to sit down just so merrily to his morning meal,
before going to work in the office.Why had they not thanked God on
their knees for peace while they had it?See the brave little wife waiting on the porch of her home for him to go
by.The sun shines, and the grass is green on the little plot, and the
geraniums red.Last spring she was sewing here with a song on her lips,
watching for him to turn the corner as he came back to dinner.Her good
neighbors, the doctor and his wife, come in at the little gate to cheer
her.Why does God mock her with sunlight and
with friends?And that is his dear face, the second from the end.Look, he is smiling bravely, as if to say a thousand
tender things."Will, are the flannels in your knapsack?You have not
forgotten that medicine for your cough?"What courage sublime is that
which lets her wave at him?Well for you, little woman, that you cannot
see the faces of the good doctor and his wife behind you.Oh, those guns
of Sumter, how they roar in your head!Ay, and will roar again, through
forty years of widowhood!Brice was in the little parlor that Friday night, listening to the
cry of the rain outside.Why
should she be happy, and other mothers miserable?The day of reckoning
for her happiness must surely come, when she must kiss Stephen a brave
farewell and give him to his country.For the sins of the fathers are
visited on the children, unto the third and fourth generation of them
that hate Him who is the Ruler of all things.The bell rang, and Stephen went to the door.That gentleman was suddenly aged, and his clothes were wet
and spattered with mud.He sank into a chair, but refused the spirits
and water which Mrs."Stephen," he said, "I have been searching the city for John.Did you
see him at Camp Jackson--was he hurt?""I think not, sir," Stephen answered, with clear eyes."I saw him walking southward after the firing was all over.""If you will excuse me,
madam, I shall hurry to tell my wife and daughter.I have been able to
find no one who saw him."As he went out he glanced at Stephen's forehead.But for once in his
life, Mr.Brinsmade was too much agitated to inquire about the pain of
another."Stephen, you did not tell me that you saw John," said his mother, when
the door was closed.IN THE ARSENAL

There was a dismal tea at Colonel Carvel's house in Locust Street that
evening Virginia did not touch a mouthful, and the Colonel merely made a
pretence of eating.Addison Colfax had driven in
from Bellegarde, nor could it rain fast enough or hard enough to wash
the foam from her panting horses.She did not wait for Jackson to come
out with an umbrella, but rushed through the wet from the carriage
to the door in her haste to urge the Colonel to go to the Arsenal and
demand Clarence's release.Carvel assured her
it would do no good, in vain that he told her of a more important matter
that claimed him.Could there be a more important matter than his
own nephew kept in durance, and in danger of being murdered by Dutch
butchers in the frenzy of their victory?Colfax shut herself up in
her room, and through the door Virginia heard her sobs as she went down
to tea.The Colonel made no secret of his uneasiness.With his hat on his head,
and his hands in his pockets, he paced up and down the room.He let his
cigar go out,--a more serious sign still.Finally he stood with his face
to the black window, against which the big drops were beating in a fury.Virginia sat expressionless at the head of the table, still in that gown
of white and crimson, which she had worn in honor of the defenders of
the state.Expressionless, save for a glance of solicitation at her
father's back.If resolve were feminine, Virginia might have sat for
that portrait.There was a light in her dark blue eyes.Underneath there
were traces of the day's fatigue.When she spoke, there was little life
in her voice."Aren't you going to the Planters' House, Pa The Colonel turned, and
tried to smile."I reckon not to-night, Jinny."To find out what they are going to do with Clarence," she said
indignantly."I reckon they don't know at the Planters' House," he said."Then--" began Virginia, and stopped."Then why not go to the Barracks?Order the carriage, and I will go with
you."He stood looking down at her fixedly, as was sometimes
his habit."Jinny," he said slowly, "Jinny, do you mean to marry Clarence?"The suddenness of the question took her breath.But she answered
steadily:

"Yes."Still he stood, and it seemed to her that her father's gaze pierced to
her secret soul."Come here, my dear," he said.He held out his arms, and she fluttered into them.It was not the first time she had cried out her troubles
against that great heart which had ever been her strong refuge.From
childhood she had been comforted there.Had she broken her doll, had
Mammy Easter been cross, had lessons gone wrong at school, was she
ill, or weary with that heaviness of spirit which is woman's inevitable
lot,--this was her sanctuary.This burden God Himself had sent,
and none save her Heavenly Father might cure it.Through his great love
for her it was given to Colonel Carvel to divine it--only vaguely.Many times he strove to speak, and could not.But presently, as if
ashamed of her tears, she drew back from him and took her old seat on
the arm of his chair.By the light of his intuition, the Colonel chose tins words well.What
he had to speak of was another sorrow, yet a healing one."You must not think of marriage now, my dear, when the bread we eat may
fail us.Jinny, we are not as rich as we used to be.Our trade was
in the South and West, and now the South and West cannot pay.Hopper yesterday, and he tells me that we must be
prepared.""And did you think I would care, dear?""I can bear
with poverty and rags, to win this war.""His own eyes were dim, but pride shone in them.Jackson came in on
tiptoe, and hesitated.At the Colonel's motion he took away the china
and the silver, and removed the white cloth, and turned low the lights
in the chandelier.He went out softly, and closed the door."Pa," said Virginia, presently, "do you trust Mr.He improved the business greatly before this trouble
came.And even now we are not in such straits as some other houses.""Eliphalet Hopper will serve you so long as
he serves himself."I think you do him an injustice, my dear," answered the Colonel.But
uneasiness was in his voice."Hopper is hard working, scrupulous to a
cent.He owns two slaves now who are running the river.He keeps out of
politics, and he has none of the Yankee faults."Getting up, he went over to the
bell-cord at the door and pulled it."To Jefferson City, dear, to see the Governor.He smiled, and stooped to kiss her."Yes," he answered, "in the rain as far as the depot, I can trust
you, Jinny.And Lige's boat will be back from New Orleans to-morrow or
Sunday."The next morning the city awoke benumbed, her heart beating but feebly.A long line of boats lay idle,
with noses to the levee.Men stood on the street corners in the rain,
reading of the capture of Camp Jackson, and of the riot, and thousands
lifted up their voices to execrate the Foreign City below Market Street.A vague terror, maliciously born, subtly spread.The Dutch had broken
up the camp, a peaceable state institution, they had shot down innocent
women and children.What might they not do to the defenceless city under
their victorious hand, whose citizens were nobly loyal to the South?Ladies who ventured out that day
crossed the street to avoid Union gentlemen of their acquaintance.It was early when Mammy Easter brought the news paper to her mistress.Virginia read the news, and ran joyfully to her aunt's room.Three times
she knocked, and then she heard a cry within.Then the key was turned
and the bolt cautiously withdrawn, and a crack of six inches disclosed
her aunt."Oh, how you frightened me, Jinny!""I thought it was the
Dutch coming to murder us all, What have they done to Clarence?""We shall see him to-day, Aunt Lillian," was the joyful answer."The
newspaper says that all the Camp Jackson prisoners are to be set free
to-day, on parole.Oh, I knew they would not dare to hold them.The
whole state would have risen to their rescue."Colfax did not receive these tidings with transports.She permitted
her niece to come into her room, and then: sank into a chair before the
mirror of her dressing-table, and scanned her face there."I could not sleep a wink, Jinny, all night long.I
am afraid I am going to have another of my attacks."I'll get it for you," said Virginia, used to her aunt's vagaries."It says that they will be paroled to-day, and that they passed a
comfortable night.""It must be a Yankee lie," said the lady.I saw them
torturing him in a thousand ways the barbarians!I know he had to sleep
on a dirty floor with low-down trash.""But we shall have him here to-night, Aunt Lillian!""Mammy, tell Uncle Ben that Mr."Has he gone down to see
Clarence?""He went to Jefferson City last night," replied Virginia.Colfax exclaimed in horror at this news."Do you mean that he has deserted us?""That he has left us
here defenceless,--at the mercy of the Dutch, that they may wreak their
vengeance upon us women?If I were your
age and able to drag myself to the street, I should be at the Arsenal
now.I should be on my knees before that detestable Captain Lyon, even
if he is a Yankee.""I do not go on my knees to any man," she said."Rosetta, tell Ned I
wish the carriage at once."Her aunt seized her convulsively by the arm."Your Pa would never forgive
me if anything happened to you."A smile, half pity, crossed the girl's anxious face."I am afraid that I must risk adding to your misfortune, Aunt Lillian,"
she said, and left the room.His was one of the Union houses which
she might visit and not lose her self respect.Like many Southerners,
when it became a question of go or stay, Mr.Brinsmade's unfaltering
love for the Union had kept him in.Bell, and later
had presided at Crittenden Compromise meetings.In short, as a man of
peace, he would have been willing to sacrifice much for peace.And now
that it was to be war, and he had taken his stand uncompromisingly with
the Union, the neighbors whom he had befriended for so many years could
not bring themselves to regard him as an enemy.He never hurt their
feelings; and almost as soon as the war began he set about that work
which has been done by self-denying Christians of all ages,--the relief
of suffering.He visited with comfort the widow and the fatherless, and
many a night in the hospital he sat through beside the dying, Yankee and
Rebel alike, and wrote their last letters home.And Yankee and Rebel alike sought his help and counsel in time of
perplexity or trouble, rather than hotheaded advice from their own
leaders.Brinsmade's own carriage was drawn up at his door; and that
gentleman himself standing on the threshold.He came down his steps
bareheaded in the wet to hand Virginia from her carriage.Courteous and kind as ever, he asked for her father and her aunt as
he led her into the house.However such men may try to hide their own
trials under a cheerful mien, they do not succeed with spirits of a
kindred nature.With the others, who are less generous, it matters
not.Virginia was not so thoughtless nor so selfish that she could not
perceive that a trouble had come to this good man.Absorbed as she was
in her own affairs, she forgot some of them in his presence.The fire
left her tongue, and to him she could not have spoken harshly even of
an enemy.Such was her state of mind, when she was led into the
drawing-room.From the corner of it Anne arose and came forward to throw
her arms around her friend."Jinny, it was so good of you to come."Because we are Union," said honest Anne, wishing to have no shadow of
doubt."Anne," she cried, "if you were German, I believe
I should love you."I should not have dared go to your house,
because I know that you feel so deeply."That Jack has run away--has gone South, we think.Perhaps," she cried,
"perhaps he may be dead."She drew Anne to the sofa and
kissed her."No, he is not dead," she said gently, but with a confidence in her
voice of rare quality."He is not dead, Anne dear, or you would have
heard."Had she glanced up, she would have seen Mr.He
looked kindly at all people, but this expression he reserved for those
whom he honored.A life of service to others had made him guess that,
in the absence of her father, this girl had come to him for help of some
kind."Virginia is right, Anne," he said."John has gone to fight for his
principles, as every gentleman who is free should; we must remember
that this is his home, and that we must not quarrel with him, because
we think differently.""There is
something I can do for you, my dear?"And yet her honesty was as
great as Anne's.She would not have it thought that she came for other
reasons."My aunt is in such a state of worry over Clarence that I came
to ask you if you thought the news true, that the prisoners are to be
paroled.She thinks it is a--" Virginia flushed, and bit a rebellious
tongue.Brinsmade smiled at the slip she had nearly made.He
understood the girl, and admired her."I'll drive to the Arsenal with you, Jinny," he answered."I know
Captain Lyon, and we shall find out certainly.""You will do nothing of the kind, sir," said Virginia, with emphasis."Had I known this--about John, I should not have come."What a gentleman of the old school
he was, with his white ruffled shirt and his black stock and his eye
kindling with charity."My dear," he answered, "Nicodemus is waiting.I was just going myself
to ask Captain Lyon about John."Virginia's further objections were cut
short by the violent clanging of the door-bell, and the entrance of a
tall, energetic gentleman, whom Virginia had introduced to her as
Major Sherman, late of the army, and now president of the Fifth Street
Railroad.He then proceeded, as was
evidently his habit, directly to the business on which he was come.Brinsmade," he said, "I heard, accidentally, half an hour ago that
you were seeking news of your son.I regret to say, sir, that the news I
have will not lead to a knowledge of his whereabouts.But in justice to
a young gentleman of this city I think I ought to tell you what happened
at Camp Jackson."With
some gesticulation which added greatly to the force of the story,
he gave a most terse and vivid account of Mr.John's arrival at the
embankment by the grove--of his charging a whole regiment of Union
volunteers.Sherman did not believe in
mincing matters even to a father and sister."And, sir," said he, "you may thank the young man who lives next door to
you--Mr.Brice, I believe--for saving your son's life."Virginia felt Anne's hand tighten But her own was limp.A hot wave swept
over her, Was she never to hear the end of this man."Yes, sir, Stephen Brice," answered Mr."And I never in my life
saw a finer thing done, in the Mexican War or out of it.""As sure as I know you," said the Major, with excessive conviction.Brinsmade, "I was in there last night, I knew the young
man had been at the camp.He told me
that he had, by the embankment.But he never mentioned a word about
saving his life.""By glory, but he's even better than I
thought him, Did you see a black powder mark on his face?""Why, yes, sir, I saw a bad burn of some kind on his forehead.""Well, sir, if one of the Dutchmen who shot at Jack had known enough to
put a ball in his musket, he would have killed Mr.Brice, who was only
ten feet away, standing before your son."Anne gave a little cry--Virginia was silent--Her lips were parted.Though she realized it not, she was thirsting %a hear the whole of the
story.The Major told it, soldier fashion, but well.Sherman) had seen Brice throw the woman down and
had cried to him to lie down himself how the fire was darting down the
regiment, and how men and women were falling all about them; and how
Stephen had flung Jack and covered him with his body.Had she any right to treat
such a man with contempt?She remembered hour he had looked, at her when
he stood on the corner by the Catherwoods' house.And, worst of all, she
remembered many spiteful remarks she had made, even to Anne, the gist of
which had been that Mr.Brice was better at preaching than at fighting.She knew now--and she had known in her heart before--that this was the
greatest injustice she could have done him.It was Anne who tremblingly asked the Major.Sherman,
apparently, was not the man to say that Jack would have shot Stephen had
he not interfered.John would have
shot the man who saved his life.Brinsmade and Anne had
gone upstairs to the sickbed, these were the tidings the Major told
Virginia, who kept it in her heart.The reason he told her was because
she had guessed a part of it.Brinsmade drove to the Arsenal with her that Saturday,
in his own carriage.Forgetful of his own grief, long habit came to
him to talk cheerily with her.He told her many little anecdotes of his
travel, but not one of them did she hear.Again, at the moment when she
thought her belief in Clarence and her love for him at last secure, she
found herself drawing searching comparisons between him and the quieter
young Bostonian.In spite of herself she had to admit that Stephen's
deed was splendid.Clarence had been capable of the deed,--even to the rescue of an enemy.But--alas, that she should carry it out to a remorseless end--would
Clarence have been equal to keeping silence when Mr.Stephen Brice had not even told his mother, so Mr.As if to aggravate her torture, Mr.Brinsmade's talk drifted to the
subject of young Mr.He told her of the
brave struggle Stephen had made, and how he had earned luxuries, and
often necessities, for his mother by writing for the newspapers.Brinsmade, "often I have been unable to sleep, and
have seen the light in Stephen's room until the small hours of the
morning.""Can't you tell me something bad
about him?The good gentleman started, and looked searchingly at the girl by his
side, flushed and confused.Perhaps he thought--but how can we tell what
he thought?How can we guess that our teachers laugh at our pranks after
they have caned us for them?We do not remember that our parents have
once been young themselves, and that some word or look of our own brings
a part of their past vividly before them.Brinsmade was silent, but
he looked out of the carriage window, away from Virginia.And presently,
as they splashed through the mud near the Arsenal, they met a knot of
gentlemen in state uniforms on their way to the city.Nicodemus stopped
at his master's signal.Here was George Catherwood, and his father was
with him."They have released us on parole," said George."Yes, we had a fearful
night of it.They could not have kept us--they had no quarters."How changed he was from the gay trooper of yesterday!His bright uniform
was creased and soiled and muddy, his face unshaven, and dark rings of
weariness under his eyes."Do you know if Clarence Colfax has gone home?""Clarence is an idiot," cried George, ill-naturedly.Brinsmade, of
all the prisoners here, he refused to take the parole, or the oath of
allegiance.He swears he will remain a prisoner until he is exchanged.""The young man is Quixotic," declared the elder Catherwood, who was not
himself in the best of humors.Brinsmade, with as much severity as he was ever known
to use, "sir, I honor that young man for this more than I can tell you.Nicodemus, you may drive on."Perhaps George had caught sight of a face in the depths of the carriage,
for he turned purple, and stood staring on the pavement after his
choleric parent had gone on.Of all the thousand and more young men who had upheld
the honor of their state that week, there was but the one who chose to
remain in durance vile within the Arsenal wall--Captain Clarence Colfax,
late of the Dragoons.Brinsmade was rapidly admitted to the Arsenal, and treated with the
respect which his long service to the city deserved.He and Virginia
were shown into the bare military room of the commanding officer, and
thither presently came Captain Lyon himself.Virginia tingled with
antagonism when she saw this man who had made the city tremble, who had
set an iron heel on the flaming brand of her Cause.He, too, showed the
marks of his Herculean labors, but only on his clothes and person.His
long red hair was unbrushed, his boots covered with black mud, and his
coat unbuttoned.His face was ruddy, and his eye as clear as though
he had arisen from twelve hours' sleep.He bowed to Virginia (not too
politely, to be sure).Her own nod of are recognition did not seem to
trouble him."Yes, sir," he said incisively, in response to Mr.Brinsmade's question,
"we are forced to retain Captain Colfax.He prefers to remain a prisoner
until he is exchanged.He refuses to take the oath of allegiance to the
United States."And why should he be made to, Captain Lyon?In what way has he opposed
the United States troops?""You will pardon me, Miss Carvel," said Captain Lyon, gravely, "if I
refuse to discuss that question with you."Colfax is a near relative of yours, Miss Carvel,"
the Captain continued."His friends may come here to see him during
the day.And I believe it is not out of place for me to express my
admiration of the captain's conduct.You may care to see him now--"

"Thank you," said Virginia, curtly."Orderly, my respects to Captain Colfax, and ask him if a he will be
kind enough to come in here.Brinsmade," said the Captain, "I
should like a few words with you, sir."And so, thanks to the Captain's
delicacy, when Clarence arrived he found Virginia alone.She was much
agitated She ran toward him as he entered the door, calling his name."Max, you are going to stay here?"Aglow with admiration, she threw herself into his arms.Now, indeed, was
she proud of him.Of all the thousand defenders of the state, he alone
was true to his principles--to the South.Within sight of home, he alone
had chosen privation.She looked up into his face, which showed marks of excitement and
fatigue.She knew that he could live on
excitement.The thought came to her--was it that which sustained him
now?Surely the touch of this experience
would transform the boy into the man.This was the weak point in the
armor which she wore so bravely for her cousin.He had known neither care nor
responsibility.His one longing from a child had been that love of
fighting and adventure which is born in the race.Until this gloomy
day in the Arsenal, Virginia had never characterized it as a love of
excitement---as any thing which contained a selfish element.She looked
up into his face, I say, and saw that which it is given to a woman only
to see.His eyes burned with a light that was far away.Even with his
arms around her he seemed to have forgotten her presence, and that she
had come all the way to the Arsenal to see him.Her hands dropped limply
from his shoulders She drew away, as he did not seem to notice.Above and beyond the sacrifice of a woman's life, the
joy of possessing her soul and affection, is something more desirable
still--fame and glory--personal fame and glory, The woman may share
them, of course, and be content with the radiance.When the Governor
in making his inauguration speech, does he always think of the help the
little wife has given him.And so, in moments of excitement, when we see
far ahead into a glorious future, we do not feel the arms about us,
or value the sweets which, in more humdrum days, we labored so hard to
attain.Virginia drew away, and the one searching glance she gave him he did
not see.He was staring far beyond; tears started in her eyes, and she
turned from him to look out over the Arsenal grounds, still wet and
heavy with the night's storm.She
thought of the supper cooking at home.And yet, in that moment of bitterness Virginia loved him.Such are the
ways of women, even of the proudest, who love their country too.It was
but right that he should not think of her when the honor of the South
was at stake; and the anger that rose within her was against those nine
hundred and ninety-nine who had weakly accepted the parole."He has gone to Jefferson City, to see the Governor.."

"And you came alone?"What a relief that should have come
among the first.She was
afraid," (Virginia had to smile), "she was afraid the Yankees would kill
you.""They have behaved very well for Yankees," replied he, "No luxury, and
they will not hear of my having a servant.They are used to doing their
own work.But they have treated me much better since I refused to take
their abominable oath.""And you will be honored for it when the news reaches town."Clarence asked eagerly, "I reckon they will
think me a fool!""I should like to hear any one say so," she flashed out."No," said Virginia, "our friends will force them to release you.But you have done nothing to be imprisoned
for.""I do not want to be
released.""You do not want to be released," she repeated.If I remain a prisoner, it will
have a greater effect--for the South."She smiled again, this time at the boyish touch of heroics.Experience,
responsibility, and he would get over that.She remembered once, long
ago, when his mother had shut him up in his room for a punishment, and
he had tortured her by remaining there for two whole days.It was well on in the afternoon when she drove back to the city with Mr.Neither of them had eaten since morning, nor had they even
thought of hunger.Brinsmade was silent, leaning back in the corner
of the carriage, and Virginia absorbed in her own thoughts.Drawing near
the city, that dreaded sound, the rumble of drums, roused them.A shot
rang out, and they were jerked violently by the starting of the horses.As they dashed across Walnut at Seventh came the fusillade.Down the vista of the street was a mass of
blue uniforms, and a film of white smoke hanging about the columns of
the old Presbyterian Church Mr.Brinsmade quietly drew her back into the
carriage.The shots ceased, giving place to an angry roar that struck terror to
her heart that wet and lowering afternoon.Nicodemus tugging at the reins, and great splotches of
mud flying in at the windows.The roar of the crowd died to an ominous
moaning behind them.Brinsmade was speaking:--
"From battle and murder, and from sudden death--from all sedition, privy
conspiracy, and rebellion,--Good Lord, deliver us."He was repeating the Litany--that Litany which had come down through the
ages.They had chanted it in Cromwell's time, when homes were ruined and
laid waste, and innocents slaughtered.They had chanted it on the dark,
barricaded stairways of mediaeval Paris, through St.Bartholomew's
night, when the narrow and twisted streets, ran with blood.They had
chanted it in ancient India, and now it was heard again in the New World
and the New Republic of Peace and Good Will.The girl flinched at the word which the good gentleman had
uttered in his prayers.Was she a traitor to that flag for which her
people had fought in three wars?She burned to blot it
forever from the book Oh, the bitterness of that day, which was prophecy
of the bitterness to come.Brinsmade escorted her up her own steps.He held her hand a little at parting, and bade her be of good cheer.Perhaps he guessed something of the trial she was to go through that
night alone with her aunt, Clarence's mother.Brinsmade did not go
directly home.He went first to the little house next door to his.Brice and Judge Whipple were in the parlor: What passed between them
there has not been told, but presently the Judge and Mr.Brinsmade came
out together and stood along time in, the yard, conversing, heedless of
the rain.THE STAMPEDE

Sunday dawned, and the people flocked to the churches.But even in the
house of God were dissension and strife.Posthelwaite's Virginia saw men and women rise from their knees and
walk out--their faces pale with anger.Mark's the prayer for
the President of the United States was omitted.Catherwood nodded approvingly over the sermon in which the South was
justified, and the sanction of Holy Writ laid upon her Institution.With not indifferent elation these gentlemen watched the departure of
brethren with whom they had labored for many years, save only when Mr.Brinsmade walked down the aisle never to return.So it is that war, like
a devastating flood, creeps insistent into the most sacred places, and
will not be denied.Davitt, at least, preached that day to an united
congregation,--which is to say that none of them went out.Hopper,
who now shared a pew with Miss Crane, listened as usual with a most
reverent attention.The clouds were low and the streets wet as people
walked home to dinner, to discuss, many in passion and some in sorrow,
the doings of the morning.A certain clergyman had prayed to be
delivered from the Irish, the Dutch, and the Devil.Was it he who
started the old rumor which made such havoc that afternoon?Those
barbarians of the foreign city to the south, drunk with power, were to
sack and loot the city.How it flew across street and alley, from
yard to yard, and from house to house!Privileged Ned ran into the
dining-room where Virginia and her aunt were sitting, his eyes rolling
and his face ashen with terror, crying out that the Dutch were marching
on the city, firebrands in hand and murder in their hearts."De Gen'ral done gib out er procl'mation, Miss Jinny," he cried."De
Gen'ral done say in dat procl'mation dat he ain't got no control ober de
Dutch soldiers.""Oh Miss Jinny, ain't you gwineter Glencoe?Ain't you gwineter flee
away?Every fambly on dis here street's gwine away--is packin' up fo' de
country.Doan't you hear 'em, Miss Jinny?What'll your pa say to Ned of
he ain't make you clear out!Doan't you hear de carridges a-rattlin' off
to de country?"Virginia rose in agitation, yet trying to be calm, and to remember
that the safety of the household depended upon her alone.That was her
thought,--bred into her by generations,--the safety of the household,
of the humblest slave whose happiness and welfare depended upon her
father's bounty.How she longed in that instant for her father or
Captain Lige, for some man's strength, to depend upon.She has seen her aunt swoon before,
and her maid Susan knows well what to do."Laws Mussy, no, Miss Jinny.One <DW65> laik me doan't make no
difference.My Marsa he say: 'Whaffor you leave ma house to be ramsacked
by de Dutch?'Oh Miss Jinny, you an' Miss Lill an' Mammy
Easter an' Susan's gwine with Jackson, an' de othah niggahs can walk.Ephum an' me'll jes' put up de shutters an' load de Colonel's gun."By this time the room was filled with excited <DW64>s, some crying,
and some laughing hysterically.Uncle Ben had come in from the kitchen;
Jackson was there, and the women were a wailing bunch in the corner by
the sideboard.Old Ephum, impassive, and Ned stood together.Virginia's
eye rested upon them, and the light of love and affection was in it.Yes, carriages were indeed rattling outside, though
a sharp shower was falling.Across the street Alphonse, M. Renault's
butler, was depositing bags and bundles on the steps.M. Renault himself
bustled out into the rain, gesticulating excitedly.Spying her at the
window, he put his hands to his mouth, cried out something, and ran in
again.Virginia flung open the sash and listened for the dreaded sound
of drums.Then she crossed quickly over to where her aunt was lying on
the lounge."O Jinny," murmured that lady, who had revived, "can't you do something?They will be here any moment to burn us, to
murder us--to--oh, my poor boy!Why isn't he here to protect his mother!Why was Comyn so senseless, so thoughtless, as to leave us at such a
time!""I don't think there is any need to be frightened," said Virginia, with
a calmness that made her aunt tremble with anger."It is probably only a
rumor.Brinsmade's and ask him about it."However loath to go, Ned departed at once.All honor to those old-time
<DW64>s who are now memories, whose devotion to their masters was next
to their love of God.A great fear was in Ned's heart, but he went.And he believed devoutly that he would never see his young mistress any
more.Colfax is summoning
that courage which comes to persons of her character at such times.She
gathers her jewels into a bag, and her fine dresses into her trunk,
with trembling hands, although she is well enough now.The picture of
Clarence in the diamond frame she puts inside the waist of her gown.No,
she will not go to Bellegarde.With frantic
haste she closes the trunk, which Ephum and Jackson carry downstairs and
place between the seats of the carriage.Ned had had the horses in it
since church time.It is three in the afternoon, and Jackson explains that,
with the load, they would not reach there until midnight, if at all.Yes; many of the first families live there,
and would take them in for the night.Equipages of all sorts are
passing,--private carriages and public, and corner-stand hacks.The
black drivers are cracking whips over galloping horses.Pedestrians are hurrying by with bundles under their arms, some running
east, and some west, and some stopping to discuss excitedly the chances
of each direction.From the river comes the hoarse whistle of the boats
breaking the Sabbath stillness there.Virginia leaned against the iron railing of the steps, watching the
scene, and waiting for Ned to return from Mr.Her face was
troubled, as well it might be.The most alarming reports were cried up
to her from the street, and she looked every moment for the black smoke
of destruction to appear to the southward.Around her were gathered the
Carvel servants, most of them crying, and imploring her not to leave
them.Colfax's trunk was brought down and placed in the
carriage where three of them might have ridden to safety, a groan of
despair and entreaty rose from the faithful group that went to her
heart."Miss Jinny, you ain't gwineter leave yo' ol mammy?""Hush, Mammy," she said."No, you shall all go, if I have to stay
myself.Ephum, go to the livery stable and get another carriage."She went up into her own deserted room to gather the few things she
would take with her--the little jewellery case with the necklace of
pearls which her great-grandmother had worn at her wedding.Rosetta and
Mammy Easter were of no use, and she had sent them downstairs again.With a flutter she opened her wardrobe door, to take one last look at
the gowns there.They were part of happier days
gone by.She fell down on her knees and opened the great drawer at the
bottom, and there on the top lay the dainty gown which had belonged
to Dorothy Manners.A tear fell upon one of the flowers of the stays.Irresistibly pressed into her mind the memory of Anne's fancy dress
ball,--of the episode by the gate, upon which she had thought so often
with burning face.The voices below grow louder, but she does not hear.She is folding the
gown hurriedly into a little package.It was her great-grandmother's;
her chief heirloom after the pearls.Silk and satin from Paris are
left behind.With one glance at the bed in which she had slept since
childhood, and at the picture over it which had been her mother's, she
hurries downstairs.And Dorothy Manners's gown is under her arm.On the
landing she stops to brush her eyes with her handkerchief.Ned simply pointed out a young man standing on the
steps behind the <DW64>s.Crimson stains were on Virginia's cheeks,
and the package she carried under her arm was like lead.The young
man, although he showed no signs of excitement, reddened too as he came
forward and took off his hat.But the sight of him had acurious effect
upon Virginia, of which she was at first unconscious.A sense of
security came upon her as she looked at his face and listened to his
voice.Brinsmade has gone to the hospital, Miss Carvel," he said.Brinsmade asked me to come here with your man in the hope that I might
persuade you to stay where you are.""Then the Germans are not moving on the city?"It was that smile that angered her,
that made her rebel against the advice he had to offer; that made her
forget the insult he had risked at her hands by coming there.For she
believed him utterly, without reservation.The moment he had spoken she
was convinced that the panic was a silly scare which would be food for
merriment in future years.And yet--was not that smile in derision of
herself--of her friends who were running away?Was it not an assumption
of Northern superiority, to be resented?"It is only a malicious rumor, Miss Carvel," he answered."You have
been told so upon good authority, I suppose," she said dryly.And at the
change in her tone she saw his face fall."I have not," he replied honestly, "but I will submit it to your own
judgment.Yesterday General Harney superseded Captain Lyon in command
in St.Some citizens of prominence begged the General to send the
troops away, to avoid further ill-feeling and perhaps--bloodshed."(They
both winced at the word.)"Colonel Blair represented to the General that
the troops could not be sent away, as they had been enlisted to serve
only in St.Louis; whereupon the General in his proclamation states that
he has no control over these Home Guards.That sentence has been twisted
by some rascal into a confession that the Home Guards are not to be
controlled.I can assure you, Miss Carvel," added Stephen, speaking
with a force which made her start and thrill, "I can assure you from a
personal knowledge of the German troops that they are not a riotous lot,
and that they are under perfect control.If they were not, there are
enough regulars in the city to repress them."And she was silent, forgetful of the hub-bub around her.It
was then that her aunt called out to her, with distressing shrillness,
from the carriage:-- "Jinny, Jinny, how can you stand there talking to
young men when our lives are in danger?"She glanced hurriedly at Stephen, who said gently; "I do not wish to
delay you, Miss Carvel, if you are bent upon going."His tone was not resentful, simply quiet.Ephum turned the
corner of the street, the perspiration running on his black face."Miss Jinny, dey ain't no carridges to be had in this town.This was the occasion for another groan from the <DW64>s, and they began
once more to beseech her not to leave them.In the midst of their cries
she heard her aunt calling from the carriage, where, beside the trunk,
there was just room for her to squeeze in."Jinny," cried that lady, frantically, "are you to go or stay?The
Hessians will be here at any moment.Oh, I cannot stay here to be
murdered!"Unconsciously the girl glanced again at Stephen.He had not gone, but
was still standing in the rain on the steps, the one figure of strength
and coolness she had seen this afternoon.Distracted, she blamed the
fate which had made this man an enemy.How willingly would she have
leaned upon such as he, and submitted to his guidance.Unluckily at
that moment came down the street a group which had been ludicrous on any
other day, and was, in truth, ludicrous to Stephen then.At the head
of it was a little gentleman with red mutton-chop whiskers, hatless, in
spite of the rain beginning to fall.His face was the very caricature of
terror.His clothes, usually neat, were awry, and his arms were full
of various things, not the least conspicuous of which was a magnificent
bronze clock.It was this object that caught Virginia's eye.But years
passed before she laughed over it.Cluyme (for it was he)
trotted his family.Cluyme, in a pink wrapper, carried an armful
of the family silver; then came Belle with certain articles of feminine
apparel which need not be enumerated, and the three small Cluymes of
various ages brought up the rear.Cluyme, at the top of his speed, was come opposite to the carriage
when the lady occupant got out of it.Clutching at his sleeve, she
demanded where he was going.His wife coming after
him had a narrower escape still.Colfax retained a handful of lace
from the wrapper, the owner of which emitted a shriek of fright."Virginia, I am going to the river," said Mrs."No, indeedy, Miss Lilly, I ain't a-gwine 'thout
young Miss.The Dutch kin cotch me an' hang me, but I ain't a-gwine
'thout Miss Jinny."Colfax drew her shawl about her shoulders with dignity."Ill as I am, I shall walk.Bear
witness that I have spent a precious hour trying to save you.If I live
to see your father again, I shall tell him that you preferred to stay
here and carry on disgracefully with a Yankee, that you let your own
aunt risk her life alone in the rain.She did not run down the steps, but she caught
her aunt by the arm ere that lady had taken six paces.The girl's face
frightened Mrs.Colfax into submission, and she let herself be led back
into the carriage beside the trunk.Colfax's stung
Stephen to righteous anger and resentment--for Virginia.As to himself, he had looked for insult.He turned to go that he might
not look upon her confusion; and hanging on the resolution, swung on his
heel again, his eyes blazeing.He saw in hers the deep blue light of
the skies after an evening's storm.She was calm, and save for a little
quiver of the voice, mistress of herself as she spoke to the group of
cowering servants."Mammy," she said, "get up on the box with Ned.And, Ned, walk the
horses to the levee, so that the rest may follow.Ephum, you stay here
with the house, and I will send Ned back to keep you company."With these words, clasping tightly the precious little bundle under her
arm, she stepped into the carriage.Heedless of the risk he ran, sheer
admiration sent Stephen to the carriage door."If I can be of any service, Miss Carvel," he said, "I shall be happy."And as the horses slipped and started she slammed the door in his face.Down on the levee wheels rattled over the white stones washed clean by
the driving rain.The drops pelted the chocolate water into froth, and a
blue veil hid the distant bluffs beyond the Illinois bottom-lands.Down
on the Levee rich and poor battled for places on the landing-stages, and
would have thrown themselves into the flood had there been no boats
to save them from the dreaded Dutch.Attila and his Huns were not
more feared.What might not its
Barbarians do when roused?The rich and poor struggled together; but
money was a power that day, and many were pitilessly turned off because
they did not have the high price to carry them--who knew where?Boats which screamed, and boats which had a dragon's roar were backing
out of the close ranks where they had stood wheel-house to wheel-house,
and were dodging and bumping in the channel.See, their guards are black
with people!Colfax, when they are come out of the narrow street
into the great open space, remarks this with alarm.All the boats will
be gone before they can get near one.She
is thinking of other things than the steamboats, and wondering whether
it had not been preferable to be killed by Hessians.Vance, is
a friend of the family.What a mighty contempt did Ned and his kind have
for foot passengers!Laying about him with his whip, and shouting at the
top of his voice to make himself heard, he sent the Colonel's Kentucky
bays through the crowd down to the Barbara's landing stage, the people
scampering to the right and left, and the Carvel servants, headed by
Uncle Ben, hanging on to the carriage springs, trailing behind.He will tell you to this day how
Mr.Catherwood's carriage was pocketed by drays and bales, and how Mrs.James's horses were seized by the bridles and turned back.Ned had a
head on his shoulders, and eyes in his head.He spied Captain Vance
himself on the stage, and bade Uncle Ben hold to the horses while he
shouldered his way to that gentleman.The result was that the Captain
came bowing to the carriage door, and offered his own cabin to the
ladies.But the <DW65>s---he would take no <DW65>s except a maid for
each; and he begged Mrs.Colfax's pardon--he could not carry her trunk.So Virginia chose Mammy Easter, whose red and yellow turban was awry
from fear lest she be left behind and Ned was instructed to drive the
rest with all haste to Bellegarde.Colfax his
arm, and Virginia his eyes.He escorted the ladies to quarters in the
texas, and presently was heard swearing prodigiously as the boat was
cast off.It was said of him that he could turn an oath better than any
man on the river, which was no mean reputation.Colfax was assisted to bed by Susan.Virginia stood by the little
window of the cabin, and as the Barbara paddled and floated down the
river she looked anxiously for signals of a conflagration.Nay, in that
hour she wished that the city might burn.So it is that the best of us
may at times desire misery to thousands that our own malice may be
fed.Virginia longed to see the yellow flame creep along the wet,
gray clouds.Passionate tears came to her eyes at the thought of the
humiliation she had suffered,--and before him, of all men.Could she
ever live with her aunt after what she had said?"Carrying on with that
Yankee!"Her anger, too, was still against Stephen.Once more he had been sent by
circumstances to mock her and her people.If the city would only burn,
that his cocksure judgment might for once be mistaken, his calmness for
once broken!The rain ceased, the clouds parted, and the sun turned the muddy river
to gold.The bluffs shone May-green in the western flood of light, and a
haze hung over the bottom-lands.Not a sound disturbed the quiet of
the city receding to the northward, and the rain had washed the pall
of smoke from over it.On the boat excited voices died down to natural
tones; men smoked on the guards and promenaded on the hurricane deck,
as if this were some pleasant excursion.Women waved to the other boats
flocking after.Colfax stirred in
her berth and began to talk.Virginia did not move

"Jinny!"In that hour she remembered that great good-natured man, her
mother's brother, and for his sake Colonel Carvel had put up with much
from his wife's sister in-law.She could pass over, but never forgive
what her aunt had said to her that afternoon.Colfax had often been
cruel before, and inconsiderate.But as the girl thought of the speech,
staring out on the waters, it suddenly occurred to her that no lady
would have uttered it.In all her life she had never realized till now
that her aunt was not a lady.From that time forth Virginia's attitude
toward her aunt was changed.She controlled herself, however, and answered something, and went out
listlessly to find the Captain and inquire the destination of the boat.At the foot of the companionway
leading to the saloon deck she saw, of all people, Mr.Eliphalet Hopper
leaning on the rail, and pensively expectorating on the roof of the
wheel-house.In another mood Virginia would have laughed, for at sight
of her he straightened convulsively, thrust his quid into his cheek, and
removed his hat with more zeal than the grudging deference he usually
accorded to the sex.Clearly Eliphalet would not have chosen the
situation."I cal'late we didn't get out any too soon, Miss Carvel," he remarked,
with a sad attempt at jocoseness."There won't be a great deal in that
town when the Dutch get through with it.""I think that there are enough men left in it to save it," said
Virginia.Hopper found no suitable answer to this, for he made
none.He continued to glance at her uneasily.There was an impudent
tribute in his look which she resented strongly."He's down below--ma'am," he replied."Yes," she said, with abrupt maliciousness, "you may tell me where you
are going.""I cal'late, up the Cumberland River.That's where she's bound for,
if she don't stop before she gets there Guess there ain't many of 'em
inquired where she was goin', or cared much," he added, with a ghastly
effort to be genial."I didn't see any use in gettin' murdered, when I couldn't do anything."He stared after her up the companionway, bit off a
generous piece of tobacco, and ruminated.If to be a genius is to
possess an infinite stock of patience, Mr.But it was not a pleasant smile to look upon.She had told her aunt the news, and stood
in the breeze on the hurricane deck looking southward, with her hand
shading her eyes.The 'Barbara Lane' happened to be a boat with a
record, and her name was often in the papers.She had already caught up
with and distanced others which had had half an hour's start of her, and
was near the head of the procession.Virginia presently became aware that people were gathering around her in
knots, gazing at a boat coming toward them.Others had been met which,
on learning the dread news, turned back.But this one kept her bow
steadily up the current, although she had passed within a biscuit-toss
of the leader of the line of refugees.It was then that Captain Vance's
hairy head appeared above the deck.he said, "if here ain't pig-headed Brent, steaming the
'Jewanita' straight to destruction.""Oh, are you sure it's Captain Brent?""If that there was Shreve's old Enterprise come to life again, I'd lay
cotton to sawdust that Brent had her.Danged if he wouldn't take her
right into the jaws of the Dutch."The Captain's words spread, and caused considerable excitement.On board
the Barbara Lane were many gentlemen who had begun to be shamefaced over
their panic, and these went in a body to the Captain and asked him to
communicate with the 'Juanita'.Whereupon a certain number of whistles
were sounded, and the Barbara's bows headed for the other side of the
channel.As the Juanita drew near, Virginia saw the square figure and clean,
smooth-shaven face of Captain Lige standing in front of his wheel-house
Peace crept back into her soul, and she tingled with joy as the bells
clanged and the bucket-planks churned, and the great New Orleans packet
crept slowly to the Barbara's side."You ain't goin' in, Brent?"At the sound of his voice Virginia could
have wept."The Dutch are sacking the city," said Vance.A general titter went along the guards, and Virginia blushed."I'm on my reg'lar trip, of course," said Vance.Out there on the sunlit
river the situation seemed to call for an apology."Seems to be a little more loaded than common," remarked Captain Lige,
dryly, at which there was another general laugh."If you're really goin' up," said Captain Vance, "I reckon there's a few
here would like to be massacred, if you'll take 'em."Brent; "I'm bound for the barbecue."While the two great boats were manoeuvring, and slashing with one wheel
and the other, the gongs sounding, Virginia ran into the cabin."Oh, Aunt Lillian," she exclaimed, "here is Captain Lige and the
Juanita, and he is going to take us back with him.It its unnecessary here to repeat the moral persuasion which Virginia
used to get her aunt up and dressed.That lady, when she had heard the
whistle and the gongs, had let her imagination loose.Turning her face
to the wall, she was in the act of repeating her prayers as her niece
entered.A big stevedore carried her down two decks to where the gang-plank
was thrown across.Captain Lige himself was at the other end.His face
lighted, Pushing the people aside, he rushed across, snatched the lady
from the <DW64>'s arms, crying:

"Jinny!The stevedore's
services were required for Mammy Easter.And behind the burly shield
thus formed, a stoutish gentleman slipped over, all unnoticed, with a
carpet-bag in his hand It bore the initials E. H.

The plank was drawn in.The great wheels began to turn and hiss, the
Barbara's passengers waved good-by to the foolhardy lunatics who had
elected to go back into the jaws of destruction.Colfax was put
into a cabin; and Virginia, in a glow, climbed with Captain Lige to the
hurricane deck.There they stood for a while in silence, watching the
broad stern of the Barbara growing smaller."Just to think," Miss Carvel
remarked, with a little hysterical sigh, "just to think that some of
those people brought bronze clocks instead of tooth-brushes.""And what did you bring, my girl?"asked the Captain, glancing at the
parcel she held so tightly under her arm.He never knew why she blushed so furiously.THE STRAINING OF ANOTHER FRIENDSHIP

Captain Lige asked but two questions: where was the Colonel, and was
it true that Clarence had refused to be paroled?Though not possessing
over-fine susceptibilities, the Captain knew a mud-drum from a lady's
watch, as he himself said.In his solicitude for Virginia, he saw that
she was in no state of mind to talk of the occurrences of the last few
days.So he helped her to climb the little stair that winds to the top
of the texas,--that sanctified roof where the pilot-house squats.The
girl clung to her bonnet Will you like her any the less when you know
that it was a shovel bonnet, with long red ribbons that tied under
her chin?"Captain Lige," she said, almost
tearfully, as she took his arm, "how I thank heaven that you came up the
river this afternoon!""Jinny," said the Captain, "did you ever know why cabins are called
staterooms?""Why, no," answered she, puzzled."There was an old fellow named Shreve who ran steamboats before Jackson
fought the redcoats at New Orleans.In Shreve's time the cabins were
curtained off, just like these new-fangled sleeping-car berths.The old
man built wooden rooms, and he named them after the different states,
Kentuck, and Illinois, and Pennsylvania.So that when a fellow came
aboard he'd say: 'What state am I in, Cap?'And from this river has the
name spread all over the world--stateroom.That's mighty interesting,"
said Captain Lige."Yea," said Virginia; "why didn't you tell me long ago.""And I'll bet you can't say," the Captain continued, "why this house
we're standing on is called the texas.""Because it is annexed to the states," she replied, quick a flash."Well, you're bright," said he."Old Tufts got that notion, when Texas
came in.Bill Jenks was Captain Brent's senior pilot.His skin hung on his face
in folds, like that of a rhinoceros It was very much the same color.His
grizzled hair was all lengths, like a worn-out mop; his hand reminded
one of an eagle's claw, and his teeth were a pine yellow.He greeted
only such people as he deemed worthy of notice, but he had held Virginia
in his arms."William," said the young lady, roguishly, "how is the eye, location,
and memory?"When this happened it was put in
the Juanita's log."So the Cap'n be still harpin' on that?"he said, "Miss Jinny, he's just
plumb crazy on a pilot's qualifications.""He says that you are the best pilot on the river, but I don't believe
it," said Virginia.He made a place for her on the leather-padded
seat at the back of the pilot house, where for a long time she sat
staring at the flag trembling on the jackstaff between the great sombre
pipes.The sun fell down, but his light lingered in the air above as the
big boat forged abreast the foreign city of South St.There
was the arsenal--grim despite its dress of green, where Clarence was
confined alone.Captain Lige came in from his duties below."Well, Jinny, we'll soon be
at home," he said."We've made a quick trip against the rains.""And--and do you think the city is safe?""Jinny, would
you like to blow the whistle?""I should just love to," said Virginia.Jenks's
directions she put her toe on the tread, and shrank back when the
monster responded with a snort and a roar.River men along the levee
heard that signal and laughed.The joke was certainly not on sturdy
Elijah Brent.An hour later, Virginia and her aunt and the Captain, followed by Mammy
aster and Rosetta and Susan, were walking through the streets of the
stillest city in the Union.All that they met was a provost's guard, for
St.Once in a while they saw the light of
some contemptuous citizen of the residence district who had stayed to
laugh.Out in the suburbs, at the country houses of the first families,
people of distinction slept five and six in a room--many with only a
quilt between body and matting.Little wonder that these dreamed of
Hessians and destruction.In town they slept with their doors open,
those who remained and had faith.Martial law means passes and
explanations, and walking generally in the light of day.Martial law
means that the Commander-in-chief, if he be an artist in well doing,
may use his boot freely on politicians bland or beetle-browed.No police
force ever gave the sense of security inspired by a provost's guard.Captain Lige sat on the steps of Colonel Carvel's house that night, long
after the ladies were gone to bed.The only sounds breaking the silence
of the city were the beat of the feet of the marching squads and the
call of the corporal's relief.But the Captain smoked in agony until the
clouds of two days slipped away from under the stars, for he was trying
to decide a Question.Then he went up to a room in the house which had
been known as his since the rafters were put down on that floor.The next morning, as the Captain and Virginia sit at breakfast together
with only Mammy Easter to cook and Rosetta to wait on them, the Colonel
bursts in.He is dusty and travel-stained from his night on the train,
but his gray eyes light with affection as he sees his friend beside his
daughter."Jinny," he cries as he kisses her, "Jinny, I'm proud oil you, my girl!You didn't let the Yankees frighten you--But where is Jackson?"And so the whole miserable tale has to be told over again, between
laughter and tears on Virginia's part, and laughter and strong language
on Colonel Carvel's.What--blessing that Lige met them, else the
Colonel might now be starting for the Cumberland River in search of his
daughter.The Captain does not take much part in the conversation, and
he refuses the cigar which is offered him."Lige," he says, "this is the first time to my knowledge.""I smoked too many last night," says the Captain.The Colonel sat down,
with his feet against the mantel, too full of affairs to take much
notice of Mr."The Yanks have taken the first trick--that's sure," he said."But I
think we'll laugh last, Jinny.The
state has got more militia, or will have more militia in a day or
two.We won't miss the thousand they stole in Camp Jackson.And I've got a few commissions right here," and he
tapped his pocket."Pa," said Virginia, "did you volunteer?""The Governor wouldn't have me," he answered."He said I was more good
here in St.The Colonel listened with
many exclamations, slapping his knee from time to time as she proceeded.he cried, when she had finished, "the boy has it in him, after
all!They can't hold him a day--can they, Lige?"(No answer from the
Captain, who is eating his breakfast in silence.)"All that we have to
do is to go for Worington and get a habeas corpus from the United States
District Court.The Captain got up excitedly, his face
purple."I reckon you'll have to excuse me, Colonel," he said."There's a cargo
on my boat which has got to come off."And without more ado he left the
room.In consternation they heard the front door close behind him.And
yet, neither father nor daughter dared in that hour add to the trial
of the other by speaking out the dread that was in their hearts.The
Colonel smoked for a while, not a word escaping him, and then he patted
Virginia's cheek."I reckon I'll run over and see Russell, Jinny," he said, striving to
be cheerful.He stopped
abruptly in the hall and pressed his hand to his forehead."My God," he
whispered to himself, "if I could only go to Silas!"Colfax's lawyer, of whose politics it is not necessary to speak.There
was plenty of excitement around the Government building where his Honor
issued the writ.There lacked not gentlemen of influence who went with
Mr.Russell and Colonel Carvel and the lawyer and the Commissioner to
the Arsenal.They were admitted to the presence of the indomitable Lyon,
who informed them that Captain Colfax was a prisoner of war, and, since
the arsenal was Government property, not in the state.The Commissioner
thereupon attested the affidavit to Colonel Carvel, and thus the
application for the writ was made legal.These things the Colonel reported to Virginia; and to Mrs.Colfax, who
received them with red eyes and a thousand queries as to whether that
Yankee ruffian would pay any attention to the Sovereign law which he
pretended to uphold; whether the Marshal would not be cast over the
Arsenal wall by the slack of his raiment when he went to serve the writ.This was not the language, but the purport, of the lady's questions.Colonel Carvel had made but a light breakfast: he had had no dinner,
and little rest on the train.But he answered his sister-in-law with
unfailing courtesy.He was too honest to express a hope which he did not
feel.He had returned that evening to a dreary household.During the
day the servants had straggled in from Bellegarde, and Virginia had had
prepared those dishes which her father loved.Colfax chose to keep
her room, for which the two were silently thankful.The Colonel was humming a tune as he went down the stairs, but
Virginia was not deceived.He would not see the yearning in her eyes as
he took his chair; he would not glance at Captain Lige's empty seat.She caught her breath when she saw that the
food on his plate lay untouched.He pushed his chair away, such suffering in his look as she had never
seen."Jinny," he said, "I reckon Lige is for the Yankees.""I have known it all along," she said, but faintly."My God," cried the Colonel, in agony, "to think that he kept it from me
I to think that Lige kept it from me!""It is because he loves you, Pa," answered the girl, gently, "it is
because he loves us."Virginia got up, and went softly around the
table."Yes," he said, his voice lifeless.But her courage was not to be lightly shaken."Pa, will you forbid him
to come here--now?"A long while she waited for his answer, while the big clock ticked out
the slow seconds in the hall, and her heart beat wildly."As long as I have a roof, Lige may come under
it."She did not ask him where he was
going, but ordered Jackson to keep the supper warm, and went into the
drawing-room.The lights were out, then, but the great piano that was
her mother's lay open.That wondrous
hymn which Judge Whipple loved, which for years has been the comfort
of those in distress, floated softly with the night air out of the
open window.Colonel Carvel heard it, and
paused.He did not stop again until he reached the narrow street at the top
of the levee bank, where the quaint stone houses of the old French
residents were being loaded with wares.He took a few steps back-up the
hill.Then he wheeled about, walked swiftly down the levee, and on to
the landing-stage beside which the big 'Juanita' loomed in the night.On
her bows was set, fantastically, a yellow street-car.Its unexpected appearance there had
served to break the current of his meditations.He stood staring at it,
while the roustabouts passed and repassed, noisily carrying great logs
of wood on shoulders padded by their woollen caps."That'll be the first street-car used in the city of New Orleans, if it
ever gets there, Colonel.""Reckon I'll have to stay here and boss the cargo all night.Want to
get in as many trips as I can before--navigation closes," the Captain
concluded significantly."You were never too busy to come for
supper, Lige.Captain Lige shot at him a swift look."Come over here on the levee," said the Colonel, sternly.They walked
out together, and for some distance in silence."Lige," said the elder gentleman, striking his stick on the stones, "if
there ever was a straight goer, that's you.You've always dealt squarely
with me, and now I'm going to ask you a plain question."I'm North, I reckon," answered the Captain, bluntly.It was a long time before he spoke again.The Captain waited
like a man who expects and deserve, the severest verdict."And you wouldn't tell me, Lige?"My God, Colonel," exclaimed the other, passionately, "how could I?I
owe what I have to your charity.But for you and--and Jinny I should
have gone to the devil.If you and she are taken away, what have I left
in life?I was a coward, sir, not to tell you.And yet,--God help me,--I can't stand by and see the nation go to
pieces.Your fathers fought that
we Americans might inherit the earth--" He stopped abruptly.Then he
continued haltingly, "Colonel, I know you're a man of strong feelings
and convictions.All I ask is that you and Jinny will think of me as a
friend--"

He choked, and turned away, not heeding the direction of his feet.The
Colonel, his stick raised, stood looking after him.He was folded in the
near darkness before he called his name.He came back, wondering, across the rough stones until he stood beside
the tall figure.Below them, the lights glided along the dark water."Lige, didn't I raise you?Haven't I taught you that my house was your
home?But--but never speak to me again of this night!Not a word passed between them as they went up the quiet street.At the
sound of their feet in the entry the door was flung open, and Virginia,
with her hands out stretched, stood under the hall light."Oh, Pa, I knew you would bring him back," she said.OF CLARENCE

Captain Clarence Colfax, late of the State Dragoons, awoke on Sunday
morning the chief of the many topics of the conversation of a big city.His conduct drew forth enthusiastic praise from the gentlemen and ladies
who had thronged Beauregard and Davis avenues, and honest admiration
from the party which had broken up the camp.There were many doting parents, like Mr.Catherwood, whose boys had
accepted the parole, whose praise was a trifle lukewarm, to be sure.But popular opinion, when once aroused, will draw a grunt from the most
grudging.We are not permitted, alas, to go behind these stern walls and discover
how Captain Colfax passed that eventful Sunday of the Exodus.We know
that, in his loneliness, he hoped for a visit from his cousin, and took
to pacing his room in the afternoon, when a smarting sense of injustice
crept upon him.And how was he to guess, as he
looked out in astonishment upon the frightened flock of white boats
swimming southward, that his mother and his sweetheart were there?On Monday, while the Colonel and many prominent citizens were busying
themselves about procuring the legal writ which was at once to release
Mr.Colfax, and so cleanse the whole body of Camp Jackson's defenders
from any, veiled intentions toward the Government, many well known
carriages drew up before the Carvel House in Locust Street to
congratulate the widow and the Colonel upon the possession of such a
son and nephew.There were some who slyly congratulated Virginia, whose
martyrdom it was to sit up with people all the day long.Colfax
kept her room, and admitted only a few of her bosom friends to cry with
her.When the last of the callers was gone, Virginia was admitted to her
aunt's presence."Aunt Lillian, to-morrow morning Pa and I are going to the Arsenal with
a basket for Max.Pa seems to think there is a chance that he may come
back with us.The lady smiled wearily at the proposal, and raised her hands in
protest, the lace on the sleeves of her dressing gown falling away from
her white arms.she exclaimed, "when I can't walk to my bureau after that
terrible Sunday.No," she added, with conviction,
"I never again expect to see him alive.Comyn says they may release him,
does he?The girl went away, not in anger or impatience, but in sadness.Brought
up to reverence her elders, she had ignored the shallowness of her
aunt's character in happier days.Colfax's conduct carried
a prophecy with it.Virginia sat down on the landing to ponder on the
years to come,--on the pain they were likely to bring with them from
this source--Clarence gone to the war; her father gone (for she felt
that he would go in the end), Virginia foresaw the lonely days of trial
in company with this vain woman whom accident made her cousin's mother.Ay, and more, fate had made her the mother of the man she was to marry.The girl could scarcely bear the thought--through the hurry and swing of
the events of two days she had kept it from her mind.To-morrow he would be coming home
to her joyfully for his reward, and she did not love him.She was bound
to face that again and again.She had cheated herself again and again
with other feelings.She had set up intense love of country in the
shrine where it did not belong, and it had answered--for a while.She
saw Clarence in a hero's light--until a fatal intimate knowledge made
her shudder and draw back.Captain Lige's cheery voice roused her from below--and her father's
laugh.And as she went down to them she thanked God that this friend had
been spared to him.Never had the Captain's river yarns been better told
than at the table that evening.Virginia did not see him glance at the
Colonel when at last he had brought a smile to her face."I'm going to leave Jinny with you, Lige," said Mr."Worington has some notion that the Marshal may go to the Arsenal
to-night with the writ.she pleaded

The Colonel was taken aback.He stood looking down at her, stroking his
goatee, and marvelling at the ways of woman."The horses have been out all day, Jinny," he said, "I am going in the
cars.""I can go in the cars, too.""There is only a chance that we shall see Clarence," he went on,
uneasily."It is better than sitting still," cried Virginia, as she ran away to
get the bonnet with the red strings."Lige,--" said the Colonel, as the two stood awaiting her in the hall,
"I can't make her out.It was a long journey, in a bumping car with had springs that rattled
unceasingly, past the string of provost guards.The Colonel sat in the
corner, with his head bent down over his stick At length, cramped and
weary, they got out, and made their way along the Arsenal wall, past the
sentries to the entrance.The sergeant brought his rifle to a "port".Carver

"Captain Colfax was taken to Illinois in a skiff, quarter of an hour
since."Captain Lige gave vent to a long, low whistle.he exclaimed, "and the river this high!Before he could answer came the noise of steps from the direction of
the river, and a number of people hurried up excitedly.Worington, the lawyer, and caught him by the sleeve.Worington glanced at the sentry, and pulled the Colonel past the
entrance and into the street."They have started across with him in a light skiff----four men and a
captain.And a lot of us, who suspected
what they were up to, were standing around.When we saw 'em come down,
we made a rush and had the guard overpowered But Colfax called out to
stand back.""Cuss me if I understand him," said Mr."He told us to
disperse, and that he proposed to remain a prisoner and go where they
sent him."Then--"Move on please, gentlemen," said the sentry,
and they started to walk toward the car line, the lawyer and the Colonel
together.Virginia put her hand through the Captain's arm.In the
darkness he laid his big one over it."Don't you be frightened, Jinny, at what I said, I reckon they'll fetch
up in Illinois all right, if I know Lyon.There, there," said Captain
Lige, soothingly.She had endured more in
the past few days than often falls to the lot of one-and-twenty.He thought of the
many, many times he had taken her on his knee and kissed her tears.He
might do that no more, now.There was the young Captain, a prisoner on
the great black river, who had a better right, Elijah Brent wondered, as
they waited in the silent street for the lonely car, if Clarence loved
her as well as he.It was vary late when they reached home, and Virginia went silently up
to her room.Colonel Carvel stared grimly after her, then glanced at his
friend as he turned down the lights.The eyes of the two met, as of old,
in true understanding.The sun was still slanting over the tops of the houses the next morning
when Virginia, a ghostly figure, crept down the stairs and withdrew
the lock and bolt on the front door.The street was still, save for
the twittering of birds and the distant rumble of a cart in its early
rounds.The chill air of the morning made her shiver as she scanned the
entry for the newspaper.Dismayed, she turned to the clock in the hall.She sat long behind the curtains in her father's little library, the
thoughts whirling in her brain as she watched the growing life of
another day.Once she stole softly back to
the entry, self-indulgent and ashamed, to rehearse again the bitter and
the sweet of that scene of the Sunday before.She summoned up the image
of the young man who had stood on these steps in front of the frightened
servants.She seemed to feel again the calm power and earnestness of his
face, to hear again the clear-cut tones of his voice as he advised
her.Then she drew back, frightened, into the sombre library,
conscience-stricken that she should have yielded to this temptation
then, when Clarence--She dared not follow the thought, but she saw the
light skiff at the mercy of the angry river and the dark night.If he were spared, she prayed for strength to
consecrate herself to him A book lay on the table, and Virginia took
refuge in it.And her eyes glancing over the pages, rested on this
verse:--

       "Thy voice is heard thro' rolling drums,
        That beat to battle where he stands;
        Thy face across his fancy comes,
        And gives the battle to his hands."The paper brought no news, nor mentioned the ruse to which Captain Lyon
had resorted to elude the writ by transporting his prisoner to Illinois.Newspapers were not as alert then as now.Colonel Carvel was off early
to the Arsenal in search of tidings.He would not hear of Virginia's
going with him.Captain Lige, with a surer instinct, went to the river.Twice Virginia was summoned to her aunt, and
twice she made excuse.It was the Captain who returned first, and she
met him at the door."He is alive," said the Captain, tremulously, "alive and well, and
escaped South."She took a step toward him, and swayed.For a
brief instant he held her in his arms and then he led her to the great
armchair that was the Colonel's."Lige," she said, "--are you sure that this is not--a kindness?""No, Jinny," he answered quickly, "but things were mighty close.They struck out straight
across, but they drifted and drifted like log-wood.And then she began
to fill, and all five of 'em to bail.The
five soldiers came up on that bit of an island below the Arsenal.They
hunted all night, but they didn't find Clarence.And they got taken off
to the Arsenal this morning.""I knew that much this morning," he continued, "and so did your pa.But
the Andrew Jackson is just in from Memphis, and the Captain tells me
that he spoke the Memphis packet off Cape Girardeau, and that Clarence
was aboard.She picked him up by a miracle, after he had just missed a
round trip through her wheel-house."CHAPTER I. INTRODUCING A CAPITALIST

A cordon of blue regiments surrounded the city at first from Carondelet
to North St.The crowds liked best to go to
Compton Heights, where the tents of the German citizen-soldiers were
spread out like so many slices of white cake on the green beside the
city's reservoir.Thence the eye stretched across the town, catching the
dome of the Court House and the spire of St.Away to the west,
on the line of the Pacific railroad that led halfway across the state,
was another camp.Then another, and another, on the circle of the fan,
until the river was reached to the northward, far above the bend.Within
was a peace that passed understanding,--the peace of martial law.Without the city, in the great state beyond, an irate governor had
gathered his forces from the east and from the west.Letters came and
went between Jefferson City and Jefferson Davis, their purport being
that the Governor was to work out his own salvation, for a while
at least.Louis, struck in a night by the fever of
militarism, arose and went to Glencoe.Prying sergeants and commissioned
officers, mostly of hated German extraction, thundered at the door
of Colonel Carvel's house, and other houses, there--for Glencoe was
a border town.They searched the place more than once from garret to
cellar, muttered guttural oaths, and smelled of beer and sauerkraut, The
haughty appearance of Miss Carvel did not awe them--they were blind
to all manly sensations.The Colonel's house, alas, was one of many in
Glencoe written down in red ink in a book at headquarters as a place
toward which the feet of the young men strayed.Good evidence was
handed in time and time again that the young men had come and gone, and
red-faced commanding officers cursed indignant subalterns, and implied
that Beauty had had a hand in it.Councils of war were held over the
advisability of seizing Mr.Carvel's house at Glencoe, but proof was
lacking until one rainy night in June a captain and ten men spurred up
the drive and swung into a big circle around the house.The Captain
took off his cavalry gauntlet and knocked at the door, more gently than
usual.The Captain was given an
audience more formal than one with the queen of Prussia could have been,
Miss Carvel was infinitely more haughty than her Majesty.Was not the
Captain hired to do a degrading service?Indeed, he thought so as he
followed her about the house and he felt like the lowest of criminals
as he opened a closet door or looked under a bed.He was a beast of the
field, of the mire.How Virginia shrank from him if he had occasion to
pass her!Her gown would have been defiled by his touch.And yet the
Captain did not smell of beer, nor of sauerkraut; nor did he swear in
any language.He did his duty apologetically, but he did it.He pulled
a man (aged seventeen) out from under a great hoop skirt in a little
closet, and the man had a pistol that refused its duty when snapped in
the Captain's face.This was little Spencer Catherwood, just home from a
military academy.Spencer was taken through the rain by the chagrined Captain to the
headquarters, where he caused a little embarrassment.No damning
evidence was discovered on his person, for the pistol had long since
ceased to be a firearm.And so after a stiff lecture from the Colonel
he was finally given back into the custody of his father.Despite the
pickets, the young men filtered through daily,--or rather nightly.Presently some of them began to come back, gaunt and worn and tattered,
among the grim cargoes that were landed by the thousands and tens of
thousands on the levee.And they took them (oh, the pity of it!)Lynch's slave pen, turned into a Union prison of
detention, where their fathers and grandfathers had been wont to send
their disorderly and insubordinate <DW65>s.They were packed away, as
the miserable slaves had been, to taste something of the bitterness
of the <DW64>'s lot.So came Bert Russell to welter in a low room whose
walls gave out the stench of years.How you cooked for them, and schemed
for them, and cried for them, you devoted women of the South!You spent
the long hot summer in town, and every day you went with your baskets
to Gratiot Street, where the infected old house stands, until--until one
morning a lady walked out past the guard, and down the street.She was
civilly detained at the corner, because she wore army boots.If you were a young lady of the proper principles
in those days, you climbed a steep pair of stairs in the heat, and stood
in line until it became your turn to be catechised by an indifferent
young officer in blue who sat behind a table and smoked a horrid cigar.He had little time to be courteous.He was not to be dazzled by a bright
gown or a pretty face; he was indifferent to a smile which would have
won a savage.His duty was to look down into your heart, and extract
therefrom the nefarious scheme you had made to set free the man you
loved ere he could be sent north to Alton or Columbus.My dear, you
wish to rescue him, to disguise him, send him south by way of Colonel
Carvel's house at Glencoe.At least, he will
have died for the South.First politics, and then war, and then more politics, in this our
country.Your masterful politician obtains a regiment, and goes to war,
sword in hand.He fights well, but he is still the politician.It
was not a case merely of fighting for the Union, but first of getting
permission to fight.Camp Jackson taken, and the prisoners exchanged
south, Captain Lyon; who moved like a whirlwind, who loved the Union
beyond his own life, was thrust down again.A mutual agreement was
entered into between the Governor and the old Indian fighter in command
of the Western Department, to respect each other.How Lyon chafed, and paced the Arsenal walks while he might have
saved the state.Then two gentlemen went to Washington, and the next
thing that happened was Brigadier General Lyon, Commander of the
Department of the West.Would General Lyon confer with the Governor of Missouri?Yes, the
General would give the Governor a safe-conduct into St.Louis, but
his Excellency must come to the General.His Excellency came, and the
General deigned to go with the Union leader to the Planters House.Conference, five hours; result, a safe-conduct for the Governor back.And this is how General Lyon ended the talk.His words, generously
preserved by a Confederate colonel who accompanied his Excellency,
deserve to be writ in gold on the National Annals."Rather than concede to the state of Missouri the right to demand that
my Government shall not enlist troops within her limits, or bring troops
into the state whenever it pleases; or move its troops at its own will
into, out of, or through, the state; rather than concede to the state of
Missouri for one single instant the right to dictate to my Government in
any matter, however unimportant, I would" (rising and pointing in turn
to every one in the room) "see you, and you, and you, and you, and every
man, woman, and child in this state, dead and buried."Then, turning
to the Governor, he continued, "This means war.In an hour one of my
officers will call for you and conduct you out of my lines."And thus, without another word, without an inclination of the head, he
turned upon his heel and strode out of the room, rattling his spurs and
clanking his sabre.In less than two months that indomitable leader was
lying dead beside Wilson's Creek, among the oaks on Bloody Hill.What he
would have been to this Union, had God spared him, we shall never know.He saved Missouri, and won respect and love from the brave men who
fought against him.What prayers rose to heaven,
and curses sank to hell, when the news of them came to the city by
the river!Flags were made by loving fingers, and shirts and bandages.Trembling young ladies of Union sympathies presented colors to regiments
on the Arsenal Green, or at Jefferson Barracks, or at Camp Benton to the
northwest near the Fair Grounds.And then the regiments marched through
the streets with bands playing that march to which the words of the
Battle Hymn were set, and those bright ensigns snapping at the front;
bright now, and new, and crimson.But soon to be stained a darker red,
and rent into tatters, and finally brought back and talked over and
cried over, and tenderly laid above an inscription in a glass case, to
be revered by generations of Americans to confer What can stir the
soul more than the sight of those old flags, standing in ranks like
the veterans they are, whose duty has been nobly done?The blood of the
color-sergeant is there, black now with age.But where are the tears of
the sad women who stitched the red and the white and the blue together?The regiments marched through the streets and aboard the boats, and
pushed off before a levee of waving handkerchiefs and nags.Later--much later, black headlines, and grim
lists three columns long,--three columns of a blanket sheet!"The City
of Alton has arrived with the following Union dead and wounded, and
the following Confederate wounded (prisoners)."In a never-ceasing procession they steamed up the river; those calm
boats which had been wont to carry the white cargoes of Commerce now
bearing the red cargoes of war.And they bore away to new battlefields
thousands of fresh-faced boys from Wisconsin and Michigan and Minnesota,
gathered at Camp Benton.Some came back with their color gone and their
red cheeks sallow and bearded and sunken.Stephen Brice, with a pain over his heart and a lump in his throat,
walked on the pavement beside his old company, but his look avoided
their faces.He wrung Richter's hand on the landing-stage.The good German's eyes were filled as he said good-by."You will come, too, my friend, when the country needs you," he said."Now" (and he shrugged his shoulders), "now have we many with no cares
to go.I have not even a father--" And he turned to Judge Whipple, who
was standing by, holding out a bony hand."God bless you, Carl," said the Judge And Carl could scarce believe his
ears.He got aboard the boat, her decks already blue with troops, and as
she backed out with her whistle screaming, the last objects he saw were
the gaunt old man and the broad-shouldered young man side by side on the
edge of the landing.Stephen's chest heaved, and as he walked back to the office with the
Judge, he could not trust himself to speak.Back to the silent office
where the shelves mocked them.The Judge closed the ground-glass door
behind him, and Stephen sat until five o'clock over a book.No, it was
not Whittlesey, but Hardee's "Tactics."He shut it with a slam, and went
to Verandah Hall to drill recruits on a dusty floor,--narrow-chested
citizens in suspenders, who knew not the first motion in right about
face.For Stephen was an adjutant in the Home Guards--what was left of
them.One we know of regarded the going of the troops and the coming of the
wounded with an equanimity truly philosophical.When the regiments
passed Carvel & Company on their way riverward to embark, Mr.Hopper did
not often take the trouble to rise from his chair, nor was he ever known
to go to the door to bid them Godspeed.This was all very well, because
they were Union regiments.Hopper did not contribute a horse,
nor even a saddle-blanket, to the young men who went away secretly in
the night, without fathers or mothers or sisters to wave at them.One scorching afternoon in July Colonel Carvel came into the office,
too hurried to remark the pain in honest Ephum's face as he watched his
master.The sure signs of a harassed man were on the Colonel.Since May
he had neglected his business affairs for others which he deemed public,
and which were so mysterious that even Mr.Hopper could not get wind
of them.These matters had taken the Colonel out of town.But now the
necessity of a pass made that awkward, and he went no farther than
Glencoe, where he spent an occasional Sunday.Hopper rose from
his chair when Mr.Carvel entered,--a most unprecedented action.Sitting down at his desk, he drummed upon it
uneasily.Eliphalet crossed the room quickly, and something that was very near a
smile was on his face.Carvel's chair with
a semi-confidential air,--one wholly new, had the Colonel given it a
thought.He did not, but began to finger some printed slips of paper
which had indorsements on their backs.His fine lips were tightly
closed, as if in pain.Hopper," he said, "these Eastern notes are due this week, are they
not?""There is no use mincing matters, Hopper.You know as well as I that
there is no money to pay them," said he, with a certain pompous attempt
at severity which characterized his kind nature.You have brought this business up to a modern footing, and made
it as prosperous as any in the town.I am sorry, sir, that those
contemptible Yankees should have forced us to the use of arms, and cut
short many promising business careers such as yours, sir.And the good gentleman looked
out of the window.He was thinking of a day, before the Mexican War,
when his young wife had sat in the very chair filled by Mr."These notes cannot be met," he repeated, and his voice was near to
breaking.The flies droning in the hot office made the only sound.Outside the
partition, among the bales, was silence.Hopper, with a remarkable ease, "I cal'late these
notes can be met."The Colonel jumped as if he had heard a shot, and one of the notes fell
to the floor.Eliphalet picked it up tenderly, and held it."There isn't a bank in town
that will lend me money.I--I haven't a friend--a friend I may ask who
can spare it, sir."Suavity was come upon
it like a new glove and changed the man.Now
he had poise, such poise as we in these days are accustomed to see in
leather and mahogany offices."I will take up those notes myself, sir."cried the Colonel, incredulously, "You?"There was not a deal of hypocrisy in his
nature, and now he did not attempt the part of Samaritan.He did not
beam upon the Colonel and remind him of the day on which, homeless and
friendless, he had been frightened into his store by a drove of mules.But his day,--the day toward which he had striven unknown and
unnoticed for so many years--the day when he would laugh at the pride of
those who had ignored and insulted him, was dawning at last.When we
are thoughtless of our words, we do not reckon with that spark in little
bosoms that may burst into flame and burn us.Not that Colonel Carvel
had ever been aught but courteous and kind to all.His station in life
had been his offence to Eliphalet, who strove now to hide an exultation
that made him tremble."I cal'late that I can gather together enough to meet the notes,
Colonel.Here followed an interval
of sheer astonishment to Mr."And you will take my note for the amount?"The Colonel pulled his goatee, and sat back in his chair, trying to face
the new light in which he saw his manager.He knew well enough that the
man was not doing this out of charity, or even gratitude.He reviewed
his whole career, from that first morning when he had carried bales to
the shipping room, to his replacement of Mr.Hood, and there was nothing
with which to accuse him.He remembered the warnings of Captain Lige
and Virginia.He could not in honor ask a cent from the Captain now.He
would not ask his sister-in-law, Mrs.Colfax, to let him touch the money
he had so ably invested for her; that little which Virginia's mother had
left the girl was sacred.Carvel had lain awake with the agony of those
Eastern debts.Not to pay was to tarnish the name of a Southern
gentleman.His house would bring nothing
in these times.He rose and began to pace the floor, tugging at his
chin.Hopper, who sat calmly on, and the
third time stopped abruptly before him."Where the devil did you get this money, sir?""I haven't been extravagant, Colonel, since I've worked for you,"
he said."It don't cost me much to live.The furrows in the Colonel's brow deepened."You offer to lend me five times more than I have ever paid you, Mr.Tell me how you have made this money before I accept it."Eliphalet had never been able to meet that eye since he had known it.But he went to his desk, and drew a long sheet of
paper from a pigeonhole."These be some of my investments," he answered, with just a tinge of
surliness."I cal'late they'll stand inspection.I ain't forcing you to
take the money, sir," he flared up, all at once."I'd like to save the
business."He went unsteadily to his desk, and none save
God knew the shock that his pride received that day.To rescue a name
which had stood untarnished since he had brought it into the world, he
drew forth some blank notes, and filled them out.But before he signed
them he spoke:

"You are a business man, Mr.Hopper," said he, "And as a business man
you must know that these notes will not legally hold.The courts are abolished, and all transactions here in St."One moment, sir," cried the Colonel, standing up and towering to his
full height."Law or no law, you shall have the money and interest, or
your security, which is this business.I need not tell you, sir, that my
word is sacred, and binding forever upon me and mine.""I'm not afraid, Colonel," answered Mr.Hopper, with a feeble attempt at
geniality.He was, in truth, awed at last."If you
were--this instant you should leave this place."He sat down, and
continued more calmly: "It will not be long before a Southern Army
marches into St."Do you reckon we can hold the business together until then,
Mr.God forbid that we should smile at the Colonel's simple faith.And if
Eliphalet Hopper had done so, his history would have ended here."Leave that to me, Colonel," he said soberly.The good Colonel sighed as he signed, away that
business which had been an honor to the city where it was founded, I
thank heaven that we are not concerned with the details of their talk
that day.Why should we wish to know the rate of interest on those
notes, or the time?Hopper filled out his check, and presently departed.It was the
signal for the little force which remained to leave.Outside, in the
store; Ephum paced uneasily, wondering why his master did not come out.Presently he crept to the door of the office, pushed it open, and beheld
Mr.Carvel with his head bowed, down in his hands."Marse Comyn, you know what I done promise young MISS long time ago,
befo'--befo' she done left us?"He saw the faithful old <DW64> but dimly.Faintly he heard the pleading
voice."Marse Comyn, won' you give Ephum a pass down, river, ter fotch Cap'n
Lige?""Ephum," said the Colonel, sadly, "I had a letter from the Captain
yesterday.His boat is a Federal transport, and he is in
Yankee pay."Ephum took a step forward, appealingly, "But de Cap'n's yo' friend,
Marse Comyn.He ain't never fo'get what you done fo' him, Marse Comyn.He ain't in de army, suh.""And I am the Captain's friend, Ephum," answered the Colonel, quietly."But I will not ask aid from any man employed by the Yankee Government.No--not from my own brother, who is in a Pennsylvania regiments."Ephum shuffled out, and his heart was lead as he closed the store that
night.Hopper has boarded a Fifth Street car, which jangles on with many
halts until it comes to Bremen, a German settlement in the north of the
city.At Bremen great droves of mules fill the street, and crowd the
entrances of the sale stables there.Whips are cracking like pistol
shots, Gentlemen with the yellow cavalry stripe of the United States
Army are pushing to and fro among the drivers and the owners, and
fingering the frightened animals.A herd breaks from the confusion
and is driven like a whirlwind down the street, dividing at the Market
House.They are going to board the Government transport--to die on the
battlefields of Kentucky and Missouri.Hopper alights from the car with complacency.He stands for a
while on a corner, against the hot building, surveying the busy scene,
unnoticed.Was it not a prophecy,--that drove which sent him into
Mr.Presently a man with a gnawed yellow mustache and a shifty eye walks out
of one of the offices, and perceives our friend.Eliphalet extends a hand to be squeezed and returned."Wal, I jest reckon," is the answer: The fellow was interrupted by the
appearance of a smart young man in a smart uniform, who wore an air of
genteel importance.He could not have been more than two and twenty, and
his face and manners were those of a clerk.The tan of field service was
lacking on his cheek, and he was black under the eyes."Hullo, Ford," he said, jocularly."Howdy, Cap," retorted the other."Wal, suh, that last lot was an extry,
fo' sure.Gov'ment
ain't cheated much on them there at one-eighty a head, I reckon."Ford said this with such an air of conviction and such a sober face
that the Captain smiled.And at the same time he glanced down nervously
at the new line of buttons on his chest."I guess I know a mule from a Newfoundland dog by this time," said he."Wal, I jest reckon," asserted Mr."Cap'n
Wentworth, allow me to make you acquainted with Mr.Hopper,
Cap'n Wentworth.""You interested in
mules, Mr."I don't cal'late to be," said.Let us hope that our worthy
has not been presented as being wholly without a sense of humor.He
grinned as he looked upon this lamb in the uniform of Mars, and added,
"I'm just naturally patriotic, I guess.Cap'n, 'll you have a drink?""It's d--d tiresome lookin' at mules all
day in the sun."Davitt that his mission work does not extend to Bremen,
that the good man's charity keeps him at the improvised hospital down
town.Hopper has resigned the superintendency of his Sunday School,
it is true, but he is still a pillar of the church.The young officer leans against the bar, and listens to stories by
Mr.Ford, which it behooves no church members to hear.And Eliphalet understands that
the good Lord put some fools into the world in order to give the smart
people a chance to practise their talents.Hopper neither drinks nor
smokes, but he uses the spittoon with more freedom in this atmosphere.When at length the Captain has marched out, with a conscious but manly
air, Mr.Hopper turns to Ford--"Don't lose no time in presenting them
vouchers at headquarters," says he.And
there's grumbling about this Department in the Eastern papers, If we
have an investigation, we'll whistle.He tosses off a pony of Bourbon, but
his face is not a delight to look upon, "Hopper, you'll be a d--d rich
man some day."And because I ain't got no capital, I only get
four per cent.""Don't one-twenty a day suit you?"And you've got horse contracts, and
blanket contracts besides.What's to prevent my goin' south
when the vouchers is cashed?""Then your mother'll have
to move out of her little place."NEWS FROM CLARENCE

The epithet aristocrat may become odious and fatal on the banks of the
Mississippi as it was on the banks of the Seine.Thousands of our population, by the
sudden stoppage of business, are thrown out of employment.When gaunt
famine intrudes upon their household, it is but natural that they should
inquire the cause.Virginia did not read this editorial, because it appeared in that
abhorred organ of the Mudsills, the 'Missouri Democrat.'The wheels of
fortune were turning rapidly that first hot summer of the war time.Let
us be thankful that our flesh and blood are incapable of the fury of
the guillotine.But when we think calmly of those days, can we escape
without a little pity for the aristocrats?Do you think that many of
them did not know hunger and want long before that cruel war was over?How bravely they met the grim spectre which crept so insidiously into
their homes!Colfax, peevishly, one morning as they
sat at breakfast, "why do you persist it wearing that old gown?It has
gotten on my nerves, my dear.You really must have something new made,
even if there are no men here to dress for.""Aunt Lillian, you must not say such things.I do not think that I ever
dressed to please men.""Tut, tut; my dear, we all do.We must not go shabby in such times as these, or be out of
fashion, Did you know that Prince Napoleon was actually coming here for
a visit this autumn?I am having a fitting at
Miss Elder's to-day."She did not reply as she poured out her
aunt's coffee."Jinny," said that lady, "come with me to Elder's, and I will give you
some gowns.If Comyn had been as careful of his own money as of mine,
you could dress decently.""I think I do dress decently, Aunt Lillian," answered the girl."I do
not need the gowns.Give me the money you intend to pay for them, and I
can use it for a better purpose."Colfax arranged her lace pettishly."I am sick and tired of this superiority, Jinny.""Hodges goes through the lines to-morrow
night."But you have no idea where
Clarence is."exclaimed her aunt, "I would not trust him.How do you know
that he will get through the Dutch pickets to Price's army?Wasn't
Souther captured last week, and that rash letter of Puss Russell's
to Jack Brinsmade published in the Democrat?"She laughed at the
recollection, and Virginia was fain to laugh too."Puss hasn't been
around much since.I hope that will cure her of saying what she thinks
of people.""I'll save my money until Price drives the Yankees from the state, and
Clarence marches into the city at the head of a regiment," Mrs.Colfax
went on, "It won't be long now.""Oh, you can't have read the papers.And don't you remember the letter
Maude had from George?They need the bare necessities of life, Aunt
Lillian.And half of Price's men have no arms at all."Colfax, "bring me a newspaper."All we know is that Lyon has left
Springfield to meet our troops, and that a great battle is coming,
Perhaps--perhaps it is being fought to-day."Colfax burst into tears, "Oh, Jinny," she cried, "how can you be so
cruel!"That very evening a man, tall and lean, but with the shrewd and kindly
eye of a scout, came into the sitting-room with the Colonel and handed
a letter to Mrs.In the hall he slipped into Virginia's hand
another, in a "Jefferson Davis" envelope, and she thrust it in her
gown--the girl was on fire as he whispered in her ear that he had seen
Clarence, and that he was well.In two days an answer might be left
at Mr.But she must be careful what she wrote, as the
Yankee scouts were active.Clarence, indeed, had proven himself a man.Glory and uniform became
him well, but danger and deprivation better.The words he had written,
careless and frank and boyish, made Virginia's heart leap with pride.Colfax's letter began with the adventure below the Arsenal, when
the frail skiff had sunk near the island, He told how he had heard the
captain of his escort sing out to him in the darkness, and how he had
floated down the current instead, until, chilled and weary, he had
contrived to seize the branches of a huge tree floating by.And how by a
miracle the moon had risen.When the great Memphis packet bore down upon
him, he had, been seen from her guards, and rescued and made much of;
and set ashore at the next landing, for fear her captain would get into
trouble.In the morning he had walked into the country, first providing
himself with butternuts and rawhide boots and a bowie-knife.Virginia
would never have recognized her dashing captain of dragoons in this
guise.The letter was long for Clarence, and written under great difficulties
from date to date.For nearly a month he had tramped over mountains
and across river bottoms, waiting for news of an organized force of
resistance in Missouri.Begging his way from cabin to cabin, and living
on greasy bacon and corn pone, at length he crossed the swift Gasconade
(so named by the French settlers because of its brawling ways) where
the bridge of the Pacific railroad had been blown up by the Governor's
orders.Then he learned that the untiring Lyon had steamed up the
Missouri and had taken possession of Jefferson City without a blow, and
that the ragged rebel force had fought and lost at Booneville.Footsore,
but undaunted, he pushed on to join the army, which he heard was
retreating southward along the western tier of counties of the state.On the banks of the Osage he fell in with two other young amen in as bad
a plight as himself.They travelled together, until one day some rough
farmers with shotguns leaped out of a bunch of willows on the borders
of a creek and arrested all three for Union spies.Clarence tried to explain that he had not long since been the dapper
captain of the State Dragoons.His Excellency, the Governor of Missouri (so acknowledged by all good
Southerners), likewise laughed when Mr.Colfax and the two others were
brought before him.His Excellency sat in a cabin surrounded by a camp
which had caused the dogs of war to howl for very shame.Louis in butternuts and
rawhide boots?""Give me a razor," demanded Clarence, with indignation, "a razor and a
suit of clothes, and I will prove it."A suit of clothes You know not what you ask."George Catherwood was
brought in,--or rather what had once been George.Now he was a big
frontiersman with a huge blond beard, and a bowie, knife stuck into
his trousers in place of a sword.He recognized his young captain of
dragoons the Governor apologized, and Clarence slept that night in the
cabin.The next day he was given a horse, and a bright new rifle which
the Governor's soldiers had taken from the Dutch at Cole Camp on the way
south, And presently they made a junction with three thousand more who
were their images.This was Price's army, but Price had gone ahead into
Kansas to beg the great McCulloch and his Confederates to come to their
aid and save the state."Dear mother, I wish that you and Jinny and Uncle Comyn could have
   seen this country rabble.How you would have laughed, and cried,
   because we are just like them.In the combined army two thousand
   have only bowie-knives or clubs.Some have long rifles of Daniel
   Boone's time, not fired for thirty years.And the impedimenta are a
   sight.Open wagons and conestogas and carryalls and buggies, and
   even barouches, weighted down with frying-pans and chairs and
   feather beds.But we've got spirit, and we can whip Lyon's Dutchmen
   and Yankees just as we are.Spirit is what counts, and the Yankees
   haven't got it, I was made to-day a Captain of Cavalry under
   Colonel Rives.I ride a great, raw-boned horse like an elephant.He jolts me until I am sore,--not quite as easy as my thoroughbred,
   Jefferson.Tell Jinny to care for him, and have him ready when we
   march into St."COWSKIN PRAIRIE, 9th July."We have whipped Sigel on the prairie by <DW53> Creek and killed--we
   don't know how many.Tell Maude that George distinguished himself
   in the fight."We have at last met McCulloch and his real soldiers.We cheered
   until we cried when we saw their ranks of gray, with the gold
   buttons and the gold braid and the gold stars.General McCulloch
   has taken me on his staff, and promised me a uniform.But how to
   clothe and feed and arm our men!We have only a few poor cattle,
   and no money.We shall whip the
   Yankees before we starve."Colfax did not cease to bewail the hardship which
her dear boy was forced to endure.He, who was used to linen sheets and
eider down, was without rough blanket or shelter; who was used to the
best table in the state, was reduced to husks."But, Aunt Lillian," cried Virginia, "he is fighting for the South.If
he were fed and clothed like the Yankees, we should not be half so proud
of him."Why set down for colder gaze the burning words that Clarence wrote to
Virginia.How she pored over that letter, and folded it so that even
the candle-droppings would not be creased and fall away!He was happy,
though wretched because he could not see her.It was the life he had
longed for.he was proving his usefulness
in this world.He was no longer the mere idler whom she had chidden."Jinny, do you remember saying so many years ago that our ruin would
   come of our not being able to work?How I wish you could see us
   felling trees to make bullet-moulds, and forging slugs for canister,
   and making cartridges at night with our bayonets as candlesticks.Jinny dear, I know that you will keep up your courage.I can see
   you sewing for us, I can hear you praying for us."It was, in truth, how Virginia learned to sew.Her fingers were pricked and sore weeks after she began.Sad
to relate, her bandages, shirts, and havelocks never reached the
front,--those havelocks, to withstand the heat of the tropic sun, which
were made in thousands by devoted Union women that first summer of the
war, to be ridiculed as nightcaps by the soldiers."Why should not our soldiers have them, too?"They were never so happy as when sewing on them against
the arrival of the Army of Liberation, which never came.The long, long days of heat dragged slowly, with little to cheer those
families separated from their dear ones by a great army.Clarence might
die, and a month--perhaps a year--pass without news, unless he were
brought a prisoner to St.How Virginia envied Maude because the
Union lists of dead and wounded would give her tidings of her brother
Tom, at least!How she coveted the many Union families, whose sons and
brothers were at the front, this privilege!We were speaking of the French Revolution, when, as Balzac remarked, to
be a spy was to be a patriot.Heads are not so cheap in our Anglo-Saxon
countries; passions not so fierce and uncontrollable.Compare, with a
prominent historian, our Boston Massacre and St.Compare Camp Jackson, or Baltimore, where a
few people were shot, with some Paris street scenes after the Bastille.Our own provost marshal was
hissed in the street, and called "Robespierre," and yet he did not fear
the assassin's knife.Our own Southern aristocrats were hemmed in in
a Union city (their own city).No women were thrown into prison, it is
true.Yet one was not permitted to shout for Jeff Davis on the street
corner before the provost's guard.Once in a while a detachment of
the Home Guards, commanded by a lieutenant; would march swiftly into a
street and stop before a house, whose occupants would run to the rear,
only to encounter another detachment in the alley.One day, in great excitement, Eugenie Renault rang the bell of the
Carvel house, and ran past the astounded Jackson up the stairs to
Virginia's room, the door of which she burst open.she cried, "Puss Russell's house is surrounded by Yankees,
and Puss and Emily and all the family are prisoners!"said Virginia, dropping in her excitement her
last year's bonnet, which she was trimming with red, white, and red."Because," said Eugenie, sputtering with indignation "because they waved
at some of our poor fellows who were being taken to the slave pen.Russell's house under guard--Puss had a
small--"

"Confederate flag," put in Virginia, smiling in spite of herself."And she waved it between the shutters," Eugenie continued."And some
one told, the provost marshal.He has had the house surrounded, and the
family have to stay there.""Then," said Miss Renault, in a voice of awe, "then each one of the
family is to have just a common army ration.They are to be treated as
prisoners.""Oh, those Yankees are detestable!"As soon as our army is organized and equipped, they shall
pay for it ten times over."She tried on the bonnet, conspicuous with
its red and white ribbons, before the glass.Then she ran to the closet
and drew forth the white gown with its red trimmings."Wait for me,
Genie," she said, "and we'll go down to Puss's house together.It may
cheer her to see us.""But not in that dress," said Eugenie, aghast.And her eyes flashed so
that Eugenie was frightened.Miss Renault regarded her friend with something of adoration from
beneath her black lashes.It was about five in the afternoon when they
started out together under Virginia's white parasol, Eugenie's slimmer
courage upheld by her friend's bearing.We must remember that
Virginia was young, and that her feelings were akin to those our
great-grandmothers experienced when the British held New York.It was
as if she had been born to wear the red and white of the South.Elderly
gentlemen of Northern persuasion paused in their homeward walk to smile
in admiration,--some sadly, as Mr.Young gentlemen found an
excuse to retrace their steps a block or two.But Virginia walked on
air, and saw nothing.She was between fierce anger and exaltation.She
did not deign to drop her eyes as low as the citizen sergeant and guard
in front of Puss Russell's house (these men were only human, after all);
she did not so much as glance at the curious people standing on the
corner, who could not resist a murmur of delight.The citizen sergeant
only smiled, and made no move to arrest the young lady in red and white.Nor did Puss fling open the blinds and wave at her.Russell won't let her," said Virginia,
disconsolately, "Genie, let's go to headquarters, and show this Yankee
General Fremont that we are not afraid of him."Eugenie's breath was taken away by the very boldness of this
proposition.. She looked up timidly into Virginia's face, and
hero-worship got the better of prudence.The house which General Fremont appropriated for his use when he came
back from Europe to assume command in the West was not a modest one.It
still stands, a large mansion of brick with a stone front, very tall and
very wide, with an elaborate cornice and plate-glass windows, both tall
and broad, and a high basement.Two stately stone porches capped by
elaborate iron railings adorn it in front and on the side.In short, the house is of that type built
by many wealthy gentlemen in the middle of the century, which has best
stood the test of time,--the only type which, if repeated to-day, would
not clash with the architectural education which we are receiving.A
spacious yard well above the pavement surrounds it, sustained by a wall
of dressed stones, capped by an iron fence.The whole expressed wealth,
security, solidity, conservatism.Alas, that the coal deposits under
the black mud of our Western states should, at length, have driven
the owners of these houses out of them!They are now blackened, almost
buried in soot; empty, or half-tenanted by boarders, Descendants of the
old families pass them on their way to business or to the theatre with
a sigh.The sons of those who owned them have built westward, and
west-ward again, until now they are six miles from the river.On that summer evening forty years ago, when Virginia and Eugenie came
in sight of the house, a scene of great animation was before them.Talk
was rife over the commanding general's pomp and circumstance.He had
just returned from Europe, where pomp and circumstance and the military
were wedded.Foreign officers should come to America to teach our
army dress and manners.A dashing Hungarian commanded the general's
body-guard, which honorable corps was even then drawn up in the street
before the house, surrounded at a respectable distance by a crowd
that feared to jest.They felt like it save when they caught the stern
military eye of the Hungarian captain.Virginia gazed at the glittering
uniforms, resplendent in the sun, and at the sleek and well-fed horses,
and scalding tears came as she thought of the half-starved rabble of
Southern patriots on the burning prairies.Just then a sharp command
escaped in broken English from the Hungarian.The people in the yard of
the mansion parted, and the General himself walked proudly out of the
gate to the curb, where his charger was pawing the gutter.As he put
foot to the stirrup, the eye of the great man (once candidate, and again
to be, for President) caught the glint of red and white on the corner.For an instant he stood transfixed to the spot, with one leg in the air.Then he took it down again and spoke to a young officer of his staff,
who smiled and began to walk toward them.Little Eugenie's knees
trembled.She seized Virginia's arm, and whispered in agony."Oh, Jinny, you are to be arrested, after all.Oh, I wish you hadn't
been so bold!""Hush," said Virginia, as she prepared to slay the young officer with
a look.She felt like flying at his throat, and choking him for the
insolence of that smile.How dare he march undaunted to within six paces
of those eyes?The crowd drew back, But did Miss Carvel retreat?"Oh, I hope he will arrest me," she said passionately, to Eugenie."He will start a conflagration beyond the power of any Yankee to quell."No, those were not
the words, surely.He bowed very
low and said:

"Ladies, the General's compliments, and he begs that this much of the
sidewalk may be kept clear for a few moments."What was left for them, after that, save a retreat?But he was not
precipitate.Miss Virginia crossed the street with a dignity and bearing
which drew even the eyes of the body-guard to one side.And there she
stood haughtily until the guard and the General had thundered away.A
crowd of black-coated civilians, and quartermasters and other officers
in uniform, poured out of the basement of the house into the yards.One
civilian, a youngish man a little inclined to stoutness, stopped at the
gate, stared, then thrust some papers in his pocket and hurried down
the side street.Three blocks thence he appeared abreast of Miss Carvel.More remarkable still, he lifted his hat clear of his head.Hopper, with his newly acquired equanimity and poise,
startled her."May I have the pleasure," said that gentleman, "of accompanying you
home?"Eugenie giggled, Virginia was more annoyed than she showed."You must not come out of your way," she said."I am
sure you must go back to the store.Had Virginia but known, this occasional tartness in her speech gave
Eliphalet an infinite delight, even while it hurt him.His was a nature
which liked to gloat over a goal on the horizon He cared not a whit for
sweet girls; they cloyed.He
had revised his vocabulary for just such an occasion, and thrown out
some of the vernacular."Business is not so pressing nowadays, Miss Carvel," he answered, with a
shade of meaning."Then existence must be rather heavy for you," she said.She made
no attempt to introduce him to Eugenie."If we should have any more
victories like Bull Run, prosperity will come back with a rush," said
the son of Massachusetts."Southern Confederacy, with Missouri one of
its stars an industrial development of the South--fortunes in cotton."Virginia turned quickly, "Oh, how dare you?""How dare you
speak flippantly of such things?"His suavity was far from overthrown."I assure you that I want to see the
South win."What he did not know was that words seldom convince women.But he added something which reduced her incredulity for the time."Do
you cal'late," said he,--that I could work for your father, and wish
ruin to his country?""But you are a Yankee born," she exclaimed."There be a few sane Yankees," replied Mr.A remark
which made Eugenie laugh outright, and Virginia could not refrain from a
smile.But much against her will he walked home with her.She was indignant by
the time she reached Locust Street.He had never dared do such a thing
before, What had got into the man?Was it because he had become
a manager, and governed the business during her father's frequent
absences?Hopper's politics, he would always be to
her a low-born Yankee, a person wholly unworthy of notice.At the corner of Olive Street, a young man walking with long strides
almost bumped into them.He paused looked back, and bowed as if
uncertain of an acknowledgment.He had
been very close to her, and she had had time to notice that his coat was
threadbare.When she looked again, he had covered half the block.Why should she care if Stephen Brice had seen her in company with Mr.Eliphalet, too, had seen Stephen, and this had added zest to his
enjoyment.It was part of the fruits of his reward.He wished in that
short walk that he might meet Mr.Cluyme and Belle, and every man and
woman and child in the city whom he knew.From time to time he glanced
at the severe profile of the aristocrat beside him (he had to look up a
bit, likewise), and that look set him down among the beasts of prey.For she was his rightful prey, and he meant not to lose one tittle of
enjoyment in the progress of the game.Many and many a night in the bare
little back room at Miss Crane's, Eliphalet had gloated over the very
event which was now come to pass.Not a step of the way but what he had
lived through before.The future is laid open to such men as he.Since he had first seen the
black cloud of war rolling up from the South, a hundred times had he
rehearsed the scene with Colonel Carvel which had actually taken place
a week before.A hundred times had he prepared his speech and manner for
this first appearance in public with Virginia after he had forced the
right to walk in her company.The words he had prepared--commonplace, to
be sure, but carefully chosen--flowed from his lips in a continual nasal
stream.The girl answered absently, her feminine instinct groping after
a reason for it all.She brightened when she saw her father at the
doors and, saying good by to Eugenie, tripped up the steps, bowing to
Eliphalet coldly."Why, bless us, Jinny," said the Colonel, "you haven't been parading the
town in that costume!You'll have us in Lynch's slave pen by to-morrow
night.laughed he, patting her under the chin, "there's no
doubt about your sentiments, anyhow.""I've been over to Puss Russell's house," said she, breathless."They've
closed it up, you know--" (He nodded.)"And then we went--Eugenie and I,
to headquarters, just to see what the Yankees would do.""You must take care, honey,"
he said, lowering his voice."They suspect me now of communicating with
the Governor and McCulloch.Jinny, it's all very well to be brave, and
to stand by your colors.But this sort of thing," said he, stroking the
gown, "this sort of thing doesn't help the South, my dear, and only
sets spies upon us.Ned tells me that there was a man in plain clothes
standing in the alley last night for three hours.""Pa," cried the girl, "I'm so sorry."Suddenly searching his face with
a swift instinct, she perceived that these months had made it yellow and
lined."Pa, dear, you must come to Glencoe to-morrow and rest You must
not go off on any more trips.""It isn't the trips, Jinny There are duties, my dear, pleasant
duties--Jinny--"

"Yes?"The Colonel's eye had suddenly fallen on Mr.Hopper, who was still
standing at the bottom of the steps.He checked himself abruptly as
Eliphalet pulled off his hat,

"Howdy, Colonel?"Virginia was motionless, with her back to the intruder, She was frozen
by a presentiment.As she saw her father start down the steps, she
yearned to throw herself in front of him--to warn him of something; she
knew not what.Then she heard the Colonel's voice, courteous and kindly
as ever.And yet it broke a little as he greeted his visitor."Won't--won't you come in, Mr.Virginia started

"I don't know but what I will, thank you, Colonel," he answered; easily."I took the liberty of walking home with your daughter."Virginia fairly flew into the house and up the stairs.Gaining her room,
she shut the door and turned the key, as though he might pursue her
there.The man's face had all at once become a terror.She threw herself
on the lounge and buried her face in her hands, and she saw it still
leering at her with a new confidence.Presently she grew calmer; rising,
she put on the plainest of her scanty wardrobe, and went down the
stairs, all in a strange trepidation new to her.She had never been in
fear of a man before.She hearkened over the banisters for his voice,
heard it, and summoned all her courage.How cowardly she had been to
leave her father alone with him.Colfax
ignored him as completely as if his chair had been vacant He glanced at
that lady once, and smiled, for he was tasting the sweets of victory.It was Virginia who entertained him, and even the Colonel never guessed
what it cost her.Eliphalet himself marvelled at her change of manner,
and gloated over that likewise.Not a turn or a quiver of the victim's
pain is missed by your beast of prey.The Colonel was gravely polite,
but preoccupied.Had he wished it, he could not have been rude to a
guest.Hopper a cigar with the same air that he would
have given it to a governor."Thank'ee, Colonel, I don't smoke," he said, waving the bog away.Colfax flung herself out of the room.It was ten o'clock when Eliphalet reached Miss Crane's, and picked his
way up the front steps where the boarders were gathered."The war doesn't seem to make any difference in your business, Mr.Hopper," his landlady remarked, "where have you been so late?""I happened round at Colonel Carvel's this afternoon, and stayed for tea
with 'em," he answered, striving to speak casually.Abner Reed's room later than usual that
night.THE SCOURGE OF WAR

"Virginia," said Mrs.Colfax, the next morning on coming downstairs, "I
am going back to Bellegarde today.I really cannot put up with such a
person as Comyn had here to tea last night."It is safe to say that she had never accurately
gauged the force which Virginia's respect for her elders, and affection
for her aunt through Clarence, held in check.Now there had arisen in front of her a tall
person of authority, before whom she deferred instinctively.It was not
what Virginia said, for she would not stoop to tirade.Colfax sank
into a chair, seeing only the blurred lines of a newspaper the girl had
thrust into her hand."There has been a battle at Wilson's Creek," said Virginia, in an
emotionless voice."General Lyon is killed, for which I suppose we
should be thankful.More than seven hundred of the wounded are on their
way here.They are bringing them one hundred and twenty miles, from
Springfield to Rollo, in rough army wagons, with scarcely anything to
eat or drink.""At what time shall I order the carriage
to take you to Bellegarde?"Colfax leaned forward and caught the hem of her niece's gown."Oh,
let me stay," she cried, "let me stay."As you please, Aunt Lillian," she answered."You know that you may
always stay here.I only beg of you one thing, that when you have
anything to complain of, you will bring it to me, and not mention it
before Pa."Oh, Jinny," sobbed the lady, in tears again, "how can you be so cruel
at such a time, when my nerves are all in pieces?"But she did not lift her voice at dinner, which was very poor indeed for
Colonel Carvel's house.All day long Virginia, assisted by Uncle Ben and
Aunt Easter, toiled in the stifling kitchen, preparing dainties which
she had long denied herself.At evening she went to the station at
Fourteenth Street with her father, and stood amongst the people, pressed
back by the soldiers, until the trains came in.Alas, the heavy basket
which the Colonel carried on his arm was brought home again.The first
hundred to arrive, ten hours in a hot car without food or water, were
laid groaning on the bottom of great furniture vans, and carted to the
new House of Refuge Hospital, two miles to the south of the city.The next day many good women went there, Rebel and Union alike, to have
their hearts wrung.The new and cheap building standing in the hot sun
reeked with white wash and paint.The miserable men lay on the hard
floor, still in the matted clothes they had worn in battle.Those were
the first days of the war, when the wages of our passions first came to
appal us.Many of the wounds had not been tended since they were dressed
on the field weeks before.Colfax went too, with the Colonel and her niece, although she
declared repeatedly that she could not go through with such an
ordeal.Carvel had to assist her to the
waiting-room.Then he went back to the improvised wards to find Virginia
busy over a gaunt Arkansan of Price's army, whose pitiful, fever-glazed
eyes were following her every motion.His frontiersman's clothes,
stained with blackened blood, hung limp over his wasted body.At
Virginia's bidding the Colonel ran downstairs for a bucket of fresh
water, and she washed the caked dust from his face and hands.Brinsmade who got the surgeon to dress the man's wound, and to prescribe
some of the broth from Virginia's basket.For the first time since the
war began something of happiness entered her breast.Brinsmade who was everywhere that day, answering the
questions of distracted mothers and fathers and sisters who thronged
the place; consulting with the surgeons; helping the few who knew how to
work in placing mattresses under the worst cases; or again he might have
been seen seated on the bare floor with a pad on his knee, taking down
the names of dear ones in distant states,--that he might spend his night
writing to them.They put a mattress under the Arkansan.Virginia did not leave him until
he had fallen asleep, and a smile of peace was come upon his sunken
face.Dismayed at the fearful sights about her, awed by the groans that
rose on every side, she was choosing her way swiftly down the room to
join her father and aunt in the carriage below.She felt that another little while
in this heated, horrible place would drive her mad.She was almost at
the door when she came suddenly upon a sight that made her pause.An elderly lady in widow's black was kneeling beside a man groaning in
mortal agony, fanning away the flies already gathering about his face.He wore the uniform of a Union sergeant,--dusty and splotched and torn.A small Testament was clasped convulsively in the fingers of his right
band.Virginia lingered, whelmed in pity,
thrilled by a wonderful womanliness of her who knelt there.Her face the
girl had not even seen, for it was bent over the man.The sweetness of
her voice held Virginia as in a spell, and the sergeant stopped groaning
that he might listen:

"You have a wife?""A boy, ma'am--born the week--before I came--away.""I shall write to your wife," said the lady, so gently that Virginia
could scarce hear, "and tell her that you are cared for.He gave the address faintly--some little town in Minnesota.Then he
added, "God bless you, lady."Just then the chief surgeon came and stood over them.The lady turned
her face up to him, and tears sparkled in her eyes.Virginia felt them
wet in her own.Nobility, character,
efficiency,-all were written on that face.Nobility spoke in the large
features, in the generous mouth, in the calm, gray eyes.Virginia had
seen her often before, but not until now was the woman revealed to her."Doctor, could this man's life be saved if I took him to my home?"The surgeon got down beside her and took the man's pulse.For a while the doctor knelt there, shaking his head."He has
fainted," he said.The surgeon
smiled,--such a smile as a good man gives after eighteen hours of
amputating, of bandaging, of advising,--work which requires a firm hand,
a clear eye and brain, and a good heart.Brice," he said, "I shall be glad to get you permission
to take him, but we must first make him worth the taking.He glanced hurriedly about the busy room, and
then added, "We must have one more to help us.""I am afraid we must go, dear," he said, "your aunt is getting
impatient.""Won't you please go without me, Pa?""Perhaps I can be of
some use."The Colonel cast a wondering glance at the limp uniform, and went
away.The surgeon, who knew the Carvel family, gave Virginia a look of
astonishment.Brice's searching gaze that brought the color
to the girl's, face."Thank you, my dear," she said simply.As soon as he could get his sister-in-law off to Locust Street in the
carriage, Colonel Carvel came back.For two reeking hours he stood
against the newly plastered wall.Even he was surprised at the fortitude
and skill Virginia showed from the very first, when she had deftly
cut away the stiffened blue cloth, and helped to take off the rough
bandages.At length the fearful operation was finished, and the weary
surgeon, gathering up his box, expressed with all the energy left to
him, his thanks to the two ladies.The work of her hands had sustained
her while it lasted, but now the ordeal was come.She went down the
stairs on her father's arm, and out into the air.Brice was beside her, and had taken her by the hand.she was saying, "God will reward you for this act.You have
taught many of us to-day a lesson we should have learned in our Bibles."Virginia trembled with many emotions, but she answered nothing.The
mere presence of this woman had a strange effect upon the girl,--she was
filled with a longing unutterable.It was not because Margaret Brice
was the mother of him whose life had been so strangely blended with
hers--whom she saw in her dreams.And yet now some of Stephen's traits
seemed to come to her understanding, as by a revelation.Virginia had
labored through the heat of the day by Margaret Brice's side doing His
work, which levels all feuds and makes all women sisters.One brief
second had been needful for the spell.The Colonel bowed with that courtesy and respect which distinguished
him, and Mrs.Brice left them to go back into the room of torment, and
watch by the sergeant's pallet.Virginia's eyes followed her up the
stairs, and then she and her father walked slowly to the carriage.With
her foot on the step Virginia paused."Pa," she said, "do you think it would be possible to get them to let us
take that Arkansan into our house?""Why, honey, I'll ask Brinsmade if you like," said the Colonel."Here he
comes now, and Anne."It was Virginia who put the question to him."My dear," replied that gentleman, patting her, "I would do anything
in the world for you.I'll see General Fremont this very afternoon.Virginia," he added, soberly, "it is such acts as yours to-day that give
us courage to live in these times.""Oh, Jinny, I saw what you were doing for one of our men.It was well that Virginia did not see the smile on
the face of the commanding general when Mr.Brinsmade at length got to
him with her request.This was before the days when the wounded arrived
by the thousands, when the zeal of the Southern ladies threatened to
throw out of gear the workings of a great system.But the General, had
had his eye on Mr.Brinsmade, with dignity, "is a gentleman.When he gives his word, it is sacred, sir.""Even to an enemy," the General put in, "By George, Brinsmade, unless I
knew you, I should think that you were half rebel yourself.Well, well,
he may have his Arkansan."Brinsmade, when he conveyed the news to the Carvel house, did not
say that he had wasted a precious afternoon in the attempt to interview
his Excellency, the Commander in-chief.It was like obtaining an
audience with the Sultan or the Czar.Citizens who had been prominent
in affairs for twenty years, philanthropists and patriotic-spirited men
like Mr.Brinsmade, the mayor, and all the ex-mayors mopped their brows
in one of the general's anterooms of the big mansion, and wrangled with
beardless youths in bright uniforms who were part of the chain.The
General might have been a Richelieu, a Marlborough.His European notions
of uniformed inaccessibility he carried out to the letter.He was
a royal personage, seldom seen, who went abroad in the midst of a
glittering guard.It did not seem to weigh with his Excellency that
these simple and democratic gentlemen would not put up with this sort of
thing.That they who had saved the city to the Union were more or less
in communication with a simple and democratic President; that in all
their lives they had never been in the habit of sitting idly for two
hours to mop their brows.On the other hand, once you got beyond the gold lace and the etiquette,
you discovered a good man and a patriot.It was far from being the
General's fault that Mr.Hopper and others made money in mules and
worthless army blankets.Such things always have been, and always will
be unavoidable when this great country of ours rises from the deep sleep
of security into which her sons have lulled her, to demand her sword.We
shall never be able to realize that the maintenance of a standing army
of comfortable size will save millions in the end.So much for Democracy
when it becomes a catchword.The General was a good man, had he done nothing else than encourage the
Western Sanitary Commission, that glorious army of drilled men and women
who gave up all to relieve the suffering which the war was causing.Would that a novel--a great novel--might be written setting forth with
truth its doings.The hero of it could be Calvin Brinsmade, and a nobler
hero than he was never under a man's hand.For the glory of generals
fades beside his glory.Brice home from
her trying day in the hospital.Stephen, just returned from drill
at Verandah hall, met her at the door.She would not listen to his
entreaties to rest, but in the evening, as usual, took her sewing to the
porch behind the house, where there was a little breeze."Such a singular thing happened to-day, Stephen," she said."It was
while we were trying to save the life of a poor sergeant who had lost
his arm.I hope we shall be allowed to have him here."It was soon after I had come upon this poor fellow," she said."I saw
the--the flies around him.And as I got down beside him to fan them away
I had such a queer sensation.I knew that some one was standing behind
me, looking at me.Allerdyce came, and I asked him about the
man, and he said there was a chance of saving him if we could only get
help.Then some one spoke up,--such a sweet voice.It was that Miss
Carvel my dear, with whom you had such a strange experience when you
bought Hester, and to whose party you once went.Do you remember that
they offered us their house in Glencoe when the Judge was so ill?""She is a wonderful creature," his mother continued.And wasn't it a remarkable offer for a Southern woman to
make?They feel so bitterly, and--and I do not blame them."The good
lady put down on her lap the night-shirt she was making.And, my dear, her
capability astonished me.One might have thought that she had always
been a nurse.The experience was a dreadful one for me--what must
it have been for her.After the operation was over, I followed her
downstairs to where she was standing with her father in front of the
building, waiting for their carriage.I felt that I must say something
to her, for in all my life I have never seen a nobler thing done.When I
saw her there, I scarcely knew what to say.It was then three o'clock, and she had been working steadily in that
place since morning.I am sure she could not have borne it much longer.Sheer courage carried her through it, I know, for her hand trembled so
when I took it, and she was very pale.Her father, the Colonel, was with her, and he bowed to me with such
politeness.He had stood against the wall all the while we had worked,
and he brought a mattress for us.I have heard that his house is
watched, and that they have him under suspicion for communicating
with the Confederate leaders."I hope they will not get into any trouble.""I hope not, mother," said Stephen.It was two mornings later that Judge Whipple and Stephen drove to the
Iron Mountain depot, where they found a German company of Home Guards
drawn up.On the long wooden platform under the sheds Stephen
caught sight of Herr Korner and Herr Hauptmann amid a group of their
countrymen.Little Korner came forward to clasp his hands.The tears ran
on his cheeks, and he could not speak for emotion.Judge Whipple, grim
and silent, stood apart.But he uncovered his head with the others when
the train rolled in.Reverently they entered a car where the pine boxes
were piled one on another, and they bore out the earthly remains of
Captain Carl Richter.Far from the land of his birth, among those same oaks on Bloody Hill
where brave Lyon fell, he had gladly given up his life for the new
country and the new cause he had made his own.That afternoon in the cemetery, as the smoke of the last salute to a
hero hung in the flickering light and drifted upward through the
great trees, as the still air was yet quivering with the notes of the
bugle-call which is the soldiers requiem, a tall figure, gaunt and bent,
stepped out from behind the blue line of the troops.He carried in his hand a wreath of white roses--the first
of many to be laid on Richter's grave.And yet he had not filled it
with sadness.For many a month, and many a year, Stephen could not look
upon his empty place without a pang.He missed the cheery songs and the
earnest presence even more than he had thought.Carl Richter,--as his
father before him,--had lived for others.Both had sacrificed their
bodies for a cause.One of them might be pictured as he trudged with
Father Jahn from door to door through the Rhine country, or shouldering
at sixteen a heavy musket in the Landwehr's ranks to drive the tyrant
Napoleon from the beloved Fatherland Later, aged before his time,
his wife dead of misery, decrepit and prison-worn in the service of a
thankless country, his hopes lived again in Carl, the swordsman of Jena.Then came the pitiful Revolution, the sundering of all ties, the elder
man left to drag out his few weary days before a shattered altar.In
Carl a new aspiration had sprung up, a new patriotism stirred.His, too,
had been the sacrifice.Happy in death, for he had helped perpetuate
that great Union which should be for all time the refuge of the
oppressed.THE LIST OF SIXTY

One chilling day in November, when an icy rain was falling on the black
mud of the streets, Virginia looked out of the window.Her eye was
caught by two horses which were just skeletons with the skin stretched
over them.One had a bad sore on his flank, and was lame.They were
pulling a rattle-trap farm wagon with a buckled wheel.On the seat a
man, pallid and bent and scantily clad, was holding the reins in his
feeble hands, while beside him cowered a child of ten wrapped in a
ragged blanket.In the body of the wagon, lying on a mattress pressed
down in the midst of broken, cheap furniture and filthy kitchen ware,
lay a gaunt woman in the rain.Her eyes were closed, and a hump on the
surface of the dirty quilt beside her showed that a child must be there.From such a picture the girl fled in tears.But the sight of it, and of
others like it, haunted her for weeks.Through those last dreary days of
November, wretched families, which a year since had been in health and
prosperity, came to the city, beggars, with the wrecks of their homes.The history of that hideous pilgrimage across a state has never been
written.Still they came by the hundred, those families.The father of one, hale and strong when
they started, died of pneumonia in the public lodging-house.The walls
of that house could tell many tales to wring the heart.Brinsmade, did he choose to speak of his own charities.He found
time, between his labors at the big hospital newly founded, and his
correspondence, and his journeys of love,--between early morning and
midnight,--to give some hours a day to the refugees.Throughout December they poured in on the afflicted city, already
overtaxed.All the way to Springfield the road was lined with remains
of articles once dear--a child's doll, a little rocking-chair, a 
print that has hung in the best room, a Bible text.Anne Brinsmade, driven by Nicodemus, went from house to house to solicit
old clothes, and take them to the crowded place of detention.Christmas
was drawing near--a sorry Christmas, in truth.And many of the wanderers
were unclothed and unfed.More battles had been fought; factions had arisen among Union men.Louis to take charge of the Department,
and the other with his wondrous body-guard was gone.The most serious problem confronting the new general--was how to care
for the refugees.A council of citizens was called at headquarters, and
the verdict went forth in the never-to-be-forgotten Orders No."Inasmuch," said the General, "as the Secession army had driven these
people from their homes, Secession sympathizers should be made to
support them."He added that the city was unquestionably full of these.Indignation was rife the day that order was published.Sixty prominent
"disloyalists" were to be chosen and assessed to make up a sum of ten
thousand dollars."They may sell my house over my head before I will pay a cent," cried
Mr.Who were
to be on this mysterious list of "Sixty"?That was the all-absorbing
question of the town.It was an easy matter to pick the conspicuous
ones.Colonel Carvel was sure to be there, and Mr.Addison Colfax
lived for days in a fermented state of excitement which she declared
would break her down; and which, despite her many cares and worries,
gave her niece not a little amusement.For Virginia was human, and one
morning she went to her aunt's room to read this editorial from the
newspaper:-- "For the relief of many palpitating hearts it may be well
to state that we understand only two ladies are on the ten thousand
dollar list.""Jinny," she cried, "how can you be so cruel as to read me that, when
you know that I am in a state of frenzy now?It makes it an absolute certainty that Madame Jules and I will have to
pay.We are the only women of importance in the city."That afternoon she made good her much-uttered threat, and drove to
Bellegarde.Only the Colonel and Virginia and Mammy Easter and Ned were
left in the big house.Rosetta and Uncle Ben and Jackson had been
hired out, and the horses sold,--all save old Dick, who was running,
long-haired, in the fields at Glencoe.Christmas eve was a steel-gray day, and the sleet froze as it fell.Since morning Colonel Carvel had sat poking the sitting-room fire, or
pacing the floor restlessly.He was observed
night and day by Federal detectives.Virginia strove to amuse him, to
conceal her anxiety as she watched him.Well she knew that but for her
he would long since have fled southward, and often in the bitterness of
the night-time she blamed herself for not telling him to go.Ten years
had seemed to pass over him since the war had begun.All day long she had been striving to put away from her the memory of
Christmas eves past and gone of her father's early home-coming from the
store, a mysterious smile on his face; of Captain Lige stamping noisily
into the house, exchanging uproarious jests with Ned and Jackson.The
Captain had always carried under his arm a shapeless bundle which he
would confide to Ned with a knowing wink.And then the house would be
lighted from top to bottom, and Mr.Brinsmade came in for a long evening with Mr.Carvel over great bowls of
apple toddy and egg-nog.And Virginia would have her own friends in the
big parlor.That parlor was shut up now, and icy cold.Then there was Judge Whipple, the joyous event of whose year was his
Christmas dinner at Colonel Carvel's house.Brice's little table, and wondered whether he would miss
them as much as they missed him.War may break friendships, but it
cannot take away the sacredness of memories.The sombre daylight was drawing to an early close as the two stood
looking out of the sitting-room window.A man's figure muffled in
a greatcoat slanting carefully across the street caught their eyes.It was the same United States deputy marshal she had
seen the day before at Mr."Pa," she cried, "do you think he is coming here?""Pa, you must promise me to take down the mahogany bed in your room.I could not bear to see them take that.Let me put
it in the garret."The Colonel was distressed, but he spoke without a tremor.We must leave this house just as it is."Then he added,
strangely enough for him, "God's will be done."And Ned, who was cook and housemaid, came in with
his apron on."Does you want to see folks, Marse Comyn?"The Colonel rose, and went to the door himself.He was an imposing
figure as he stood in the windy vestibule, confronting the deputy.Virginia's first impulse was to shrink under the stairs.Then she came
out and stood beside her father.He was a young man with a smooth face, and
a frank brown eye which paid its tribute to Virginia.He did not appear
to relish the duty thrust upon him.He fumbled in his coat and drew from
his inner pocket a paper."Colonel Carvel," said he, "by order of Major General Halleck, I serve
you with this notice to pay the sum of three hundred and fifty dollars
for the benefit of the destitute families which the Rebels have driven
from their homes.In default of payment within a reasonable time such
personal articles will be seized and sold at public auction as will
satisfy the demand against you.""You may tell the
General that the articles may be seized.That I will not, while in my
right mind, be forced to support persons who have no claim upon me."It was said in the tone in which he might have refused an invitation to
dinner.He had gone into many houses that week;
had seen indignation, hysterics, frenzy.He had even heard men and women
whose sons and brothers were in the army of secession proclaim their
loyalty to the Union.But this dignity, and the quiet scorn of the girl
who had stood silent beside them, were new.He bowed, and casting his
eyes to the vestibule, was glad to escape from the house.Then he turned toward Virginia, thoughtfully
pulled his goatee, and laughed gently."Lordy, we haven't got three
hundred and fifty dollars to our names," said he.That fierce valley of the
Missouri, which belches fitful blizzards from December to March, is
sometimes quiet.Then the hot winds come up from the Gulf, and sleet
melts, and windows are opened.In those days the streets will be fetlock
deep in soft mud.It is neither summer, nor winter, nor spring, nor
anything.It was such a languorous afternoon in January that a furniture van,
accompanied by certain nondescript persons known as United States
Police, pulled up at the curb in front of Mr.Eugenie,
watching at the window across the street, ran to tell her father, who
came out on his steps and reviled the van with all the fluency of his
French ancestors.Mammy Easter opened the door, and then stood with her arms akimbo, amply
filling its place.Her lips protruded, and an expression of defiance
hard to describe sat on her honest black face.I 'low you knows dat jes as well as me."An embarrassed
silence, and then from Mammy, "Whaffor you laffin at?""Now I reckon you knows dat he ain't.Ef he was, you ain't come here
'quirin' in dat honey voice.""You tink I
dunno whaffor you come?You done come heah to rifle, an' to loot, an'
to steal, an' to seize what ain't your'n.You come heah when young Marse
ain't to home ter rob him.""Ned, whaffor you hidin'
yonder?Ef yo' ain't man to protect Marse Comyn's prop-ty, jes han' over
Marse Comyn's gun."The marshal and his men had stood, half amused, more than half baffled
by this unexpected resistance.Mammy Easter looked so dangerous that it
was evident she was not to be passed without extreme bodily discomfort."Who is
you to come heah 'quiring fo' her!I ain't agwine--"

"Mammy!"Mammy backed out of the door and clutched at
her bandanna."Mammy, what is all this noise about?""These heah men, Miss Jinny, was gwine f'r t' carry away all yo' pa's
blongin's.I jes' tol' 'em dey ain't comin' in ovah dis heah body."He caught sight of the face of
Miss Carvel within, and stopped abruptly."I have a warrant here from the Provost Marshal, ma'am, to seize
personal property to satisfy a claim against Colonel Carvel."Virginia took the order, read it, and handed it back."I do not see how
I am to prevent you," she said.I--I can't tell you how sorry I am.Then he
entered the chill drawing-room, threw open the blinds and glanced around
him."I expect all that we want is right here," he said.And at the sight of
the great chandelier, with its cut-glass crystals, he whistled.Then he
walked over to the big English Rothfield piano and lifted the lid.Involuntarily he rested himself on the mahogany
stool, and ran his fingers over the keys.They seemed to Virginia,
standing motionless in the ball, to give out the very chords of agony.The piano, too, had been her mother's.It had once stood in the brick
house of her grandfather Colfax at Halcyondale.The songs of Beatrice
lay on the bottom shelf of the what-not near by.No more, of an evening
when they were alone, would Virginia quietly take them out and play
them over to the Colonel, as he sat dreaming in the window with his
cigar,--dreaming of a field on the borders of a wood, of a young girl
who held his hand, and sang them softly to herself as she walked by his
side.And, when they reached the house in the October twilight, she had
played them for him on this piano.Often he had told Virginia of those
days, and walked with her over those paths.The deputy closed the lid, and sent out to the van for a truck.For the first time she heard the words of Mammy Easter."Come along upstairs wid yo' Mammy, honey.Dis ain't no place for us,
I reckon."Her words were the essence of endearment.And yet, while she
pronounced them, she glared unceasingly at the intruders."Oh, de good
Lawd'll burn de wicked!"Virginia went back into the room
and stood before the deputy."Isn't there something else you could take?"I have a necklace--"

"No, miss.And there ain't nothing quite
so salable as pianos."She watched them, dry-eyed, as they carried it away.Only Mammy Easter guessed at the pain in Virginia's breast, and
that was because there was a pain in her own.They took the rosewood
what-not, but Virginia snatched the songs before the men could
touch them, and held them in her arms.They seized the mahogany
velvet-bottomed chairs, her uncle's wedding present to her mother; and,
last of all, they ruthlessly tore up the Brussels carpet, beginning near
the spot where Clarence had spilled ice-cream at one of her children's
parties.She could not bear to look into the dismantled room when they had gone.Ned closed the blinds once
more, and she herself turned the key in the lock, and went slowly up the
stairs.CHAPTER V. THE AUCTION

"Stephen," said the Judge, in his abrupt way, "there isn't a great deal
doing.Let's go over to the Secesh property sales."The seizures and intended sale of
secession property had stirred up immense bitterness and indignation in
the city.There were Unionists (lukewarm) who denounced the measure as
unjust and brutal.The feelings of Southerners, avowed and secret, may
only be surmised.Rigid ostracism was to be the price of bidding on any
goods displayed, and men who bought in handsome furniture on that day
because it was cheap have still, after forty years, cause to remember
it.It was not that Stephen feared ostracism.Anne Brinsmade was almost the
only girl left to him from among his former circle of acquaintances.The Misses Russell showed him very
plainly that they disapproved of his politics.The hospitable days at
that house were over.Miss Catherwood, when they met on the street,
pretended not to see him, and Eugenie Renault gave him but a timid nod.The loyal families to whose houses he now went were mostly Southerners,
in sentiment against forced auctions.However, he put on his coat, and sallied forth into the sharp air, the
Judge leaning on his arm."Stephen," said he, presently, "I guess I'll do a little bidding."And, if he really wished to bid,
Stephen knew likewise that no consideration would stop him."You don't approve of this proceeding, sir, I suppose," said the Judge."Then," said the Judge, tartly, "by bidding, we help to support starving
Union families.You should not be afraid to bid, sir.""I am not afraid to bid, Judge Whipple."He did not see the smile on the
Judge's face."Then you will bid in certain things for me," said Mr.Here
he hesitated, and shook free the rest of the sentence with a wrench."Colonel Carvel always had a lot of stuff I wanted.Now I've got the
chance to buy it cheap."There was silence again, for the space of a whole block.Finally,
Stephen managed to say:-- "You'll have to excuse me, sir.cried the Judge, stopping in the middle of a cross-street, so
that a wagon nearly ran over his toes."I was once a guest in Colonel Carvel's house, sir.Neither the young man nor the old knew all it was costing the other to
say these things.The Judge took a grim pleasure in eating his heart.And as for Stephen, he often went to his office through Locust Street,
which was out of his way, in the hope that he might catch a glimpse of
Virginia.He had guessed much of the privations she had gone through.He knew that the Colonel had hired out most of his slaves, and he had
actually seen the United States Police drive across Eleventh Street with
the piano that she had played on.The Judge was laughing quietly,--not a pleasant laugh to hear,--as they
came to Morgan's great warerooms.A crowd blocked the pavement, and
hustled and shoved at the doors,--roughs, and soldiers off duty, and
ladies and gentlemen whom the Judge and Stephen knew, and some of whom
they spoke to.All of these were come out of curiosity, that they might
see for themselves any who had the temerity to bid on a neighbor's
household goods.The long hall, which ran from street to street, was
packed, the people surging backward and forward, and falling roughly
against the mahogany pieces; and apologizing, and scolding, and swearing
all in a breath.The Judge, holding tightly to Stephen, pushed his way
fiercely to the stand, vowing over and over that the commotion was a
secession trick to spoil the furniture and stampede the sale.In truth,
it was at the Judge's suggestion that a blue provost's guard was called
in later to protect the seized property.How many of those mahogany pieces, so ruthlessly tumbled about before
the public eye, meant a heartache!Wedding presents of long ago, dear to
many a bride with silvered hair, had been torn from the corner where the
children had played--children who now, alas, were grown and gone to war.Yes, that was the Brussels rug that had lain before the fire, and which
the little feet had worn in the corner.Those were the chairs the little
hands had harnessed, four in a row, and fallen on its side was the
armchair--the stage coach itself.There were the books, held up to
common gaze, that a beloved parent had thumbed with affection.Yes, and
here in another part of the hall were the family horses and the family
carriage that had gone so often back and forth from church with the
happy brood of children, now scattered and gone to war.As Stephen reached his place beside the Judge, Mr.And, if glances could have killed, many a bidder would have
dropped dead.The heavy dining-room table which meant so much to the
family went for a song to a young man recently come from Yankeeland,
whose open boast it was--like Eliphalet's secret one--that he would one
day grow rich enough to snap his fingers in the face of the Southern
aristocrats.Catherwood, his face
haggard and drawn, watched the sideboard he had given his wife on her
silver wedding being sold to a pawnbroker.Stephen looked in vain for Colonel Carvel--for Virginia.He did not want
to see them there.He knew by heart the list of things which had been
taken from their house.He understood the feeling which had sent the
Judge here to bid them in.When the auctioneer came to the Carvel list, and the well-known name was
shouted out, the crowd responded with a stir and pressed closer to the
stand.And murmurs were plainly heard in more than one direction."Now, gentlemen, and ladies," said the seller, "this here is a genuine
English Rothfield piano once belonging to Colonel Carvel, and the
celebrated Judge Colfax of Kaintucky."He lingered fondly over the
names, that the impression might have time to sink deep."This here
magnificent instrument's worth at the very least" (another pause)
"twelve hundred dollars.He struck a base note of the keys, then a treble, and they vibrated
in the heated air of the big hall.Had he hit the little C of the top
octave, the tinkle of that also might have been heard."Gentlemen and ladies, we have to begin somewheres.A menacing murmur gave place to the accusing silence.Some there were
who gazed at the Rothfield with longing eyes, but who had no intention
of committing social suicide.Suddenly a voice, the rasp of which
penetrated to St.The owner was
a seedy man with a straw-, drunkard's mustache.He was leaning
against the body of Mrs.Russell's barouche (seized for sale), and those
about him shrank away as from smallpox.His hundred-dollar offer was
followed by a hiss.When Judge Whipple drew himself up to his full six feet, that was a
warning to those that knew him.As he doubled the bid, the words came
out with the aggressive distinctness of a man who through a long life
has been used to opposition.He with the gnawed yellow mustache pushed
himself clear of the barouche, his smouldering cigar butt dropping to
the floor.And this is how Judge Whipple braved public opinion once more.As he
stood there, defiant, many were the conjectures as to what he could wish
to do with the piano of his old friend.Those who knew the Judge (and
there were few who did not) pictured to themselves the dingy little
apartment where he lived, and smiled.Whatever his detractors might have
said of him, no one was ever heard to avow that he had bought or sold
anything for gain.Could it have been of admiration for
the fine old man who towered there glaring defiance at those about him?"Give me a strong and consistent enemy," some great personage has said,
"rather than a lukewarm friend."Three score and five years the Judge
had lived, and now some were beginning to suspect that he had a heart.But it was let out to many more
that day, and they went home praising him who had once pronounced his
name with bitterness.Before he of the yellow mustache could pick up
his cigar from the floor and make another bid, the Judge had cried out
a sum which was the total of Colonel Carvel's assessment.Many recall
to this day how fiercely he frowned when the applause broke forth
of itself; and when he turned to go they made a path for him, in
admiration, the length of the hall, down which he stalked, looking
neither to the right nor left.Stephen followed him, thankful for the
day which had brought him into the service of such a man.And so it came about that the other articles were returned to Colonel
Carvel with the marshal's compliments, and put back into the cold parlor
where they had stood for many years.The men who brought them offered to
put down the carpet, but by Virginia's orders the rolls were stood up in
the corner, and the floor left bare.And days passed into weeks, and no
sign or message came from Judge Whipple in regard to the piano he had
bought.Virginia did not dare mention it to the Colonel.It had been carried by six sweating <DW64>s up the
narrow stairs into the Judge's office.Whipple's orders cleared a corner of his inner office and bedroom of
papers and books and rubbish, and there the bulky instrument was finally
set up.The Judge watched the
proceeding grimly, choking now and again from the dust that was raised,
yet uttering never a word.He locked the lid when the van man handed him
the key, and thrust that in his pocket.Stephen had of late found enough to do in St.He was the kind of
man to whom promotions came unsought, and without noise.In the autumn
he had been made a captain in the Halleck Guards of the State Militia,
as a reward for his indefatigable work in the armories and his knowledge
of tactics.Twice his company had been called out at night, and once
they made a campaign as far as the Merimec and captured a party of
recruits who were destined for Jefferson Davis.Brinsmade heard of his promotion and this exploit, and yet scarcely
a day went by that he did not see the young man at the big hospital.For
Stephen helped in the work of the Sanitary Commission too, and so strove
to make up in zeal for the service in the field which he longed to give.Brinsmade moved out to their place on the
Bellefontaine Road.This was to force Anne to take a rest.For the
girl was worn out with watching at the hospitals, and with tending
the destitute mothers and children from the ranks of the refugees.The
Brinsmade place was not far from the Fair Grounds,--now a receiving
camp for the crude but eager regiments of the Northern states.Brinsmade's, when the day's duty was done, the young Union officers
used to ride, and often there would be half a dozen of them to tea.That
house, and other great houses on the Bellefontaine Road with which this
history has no occasion to deal, were as homes to many a poor fellow who
would never see home again.Sometimes Anne would gather together such
young ladies of her acquaintance from the neighbor hood and the city as
their interests and sympathies permitted to waltz with a Union officer,
and there would be a little dance.To these dances Stephen Brice was
usually invited.One such occasion occurred on a Friday in January, and Mr.Brinsmade
himself called in his buggy and drove Stephen to the country early in
the afternoon.He and Anne went for a walk along the river, the surface
of which was broken by lumps of yellow ice.Gray clouds hung low in the
sky as they picked their way over the frozen furrows of the ploughed
fields.The grass was all a yellow-brown, but the north wind which
swayed the bare trees brought a touch of color to Anne's cheeks.Before
they realized where they were, they had nearly crossed the Bellegarde
estate, and the house itself was come into view, standing high on the
<DW72> above the withered garden."The shutters are up," said Stephen.Colfax had
come out here not long a--"

"She came out for a day just before Christina," said Anne, smiling, "and
then she ran off to Kentucky.I think she was afraid that she was one of
the two women on the list of Sixty.""It must have been a blow to her pride when she found that she was not,"
said Stephen, who had a keen remembrance of her conduct upon a certain
Sunday not a year gone.Impelled by the same inclination, they walked in silence to the house
and sat down on the edge of the porch.The only motion in the view was
the smoke from the slave quarters twisting in the wind, and the hurrying
ice in the stream.said Anne, with a sigh, "how she loved to romp!What good
times we used to have here together!"But you could not make her show
it.The other morning when she came out to our house I found her sitting
at the piano.I am sure there were tears in her eyes, but she would not
let me see them.She made some joke about Spencer Catherwood running
away.What do you think the Judge will do with that piano, Stephen?""The day after they put it in his room he came in with a great black
cloth, which he spread over it.And Anne, turning to him timidly, gave him a long,
searching look."I think that we ought to go back."They went out by the long entrance road, through the naked woods.Only a little while before he had had one of those
vivid dreams of Virginia which left their impression, but not their
substance, to haunt him.On those rare days following the dreams her
spirit had its mastery over his.He pictured her then with a glow on her
face which was neither sadness nor mirth,--a glow that ministered to
him alone.And yet, he did not dare to think that he might have won her,
even if politics and war had not divided them.When the merriment of the dance was at its height that evening, Stephen
stood at the door of the long room, meditatively watching the bright
gowns and the flash of gold on the uniforms as they flitted past.Presently the opposite door opened, and he heard Mr.Brinsmade's voice
mingling with another, the excitable energy of which recalled some
familiar episode.Almost--so it seemed--at one motion, the owner of the
voice had come out of the door and had seized Stephen's hand in a warm
grasp,--a tall and spare figure in the dress of a senior officer.The
military frock, which fitted the man's character rather than the man,
was carelessly open, laying bare a gold-buttoned white waistcoat and an
expanse of shirt bosom which ended in a black stock tie.The ends of the
collar were apart the width of the red clipped beard, and the mustache
was cropped straight along the line of the upper lip.The forehead rose
high, and was brushed carelessly free of the hair.The nose was almost
straight, but combative."The boy doesn't remember me," said the gentleman, in quick tones,
smiling at Mr."Yes, sir, I do," Stephen made haste to answer.He glanced at the star
on the shoulder strap, and said."Now in command at Camp Benton, Stephen," Mr."Won't
you sit down, General?""No," said the General, emphatically waving away the chair.Then his keen face suddenly lighted with amusement,--and
mischief, Stephen thought."So you've heard of me since we met, sir?"Guess you heard I was crazy," said the General, in his downright
way."He's been reading the lies in the newspapers too, Brinsmade," the
General went on rapidly."I'll make 'em eat their newspapers for saying
I was crazy.That's the Secretary of War's doings.Ever tell you what
Cameron did, Brinsmade?He and his party were in Louisville last fall,
when I was serving in Kentucky, and came to my room in the Galt House.Well, we locked the door, and Miller sent us up a good lunch and wine,
After lunch, the Secretary lay on my bed, and we talked things over.He
asked me what I thought about things in Kentucky.Secretary, here is the whole Union line from the
Potomac to Kansas.Here's McClellan in the East with one hundred miles
of front.Here's Fremont in the West with one hundred miles.Here we
are in Kentucky, in the centre, with three hundred miles to defend.McClellan has a hundred thousand men, Fremont has sixty thousand.You
give us fellows with over three hundred miles only eighteen thousand.''Two hundred
thousand before we get through,' said I. Cameron pitched up his hands
in the air.says he, 'where are they to come from?''The
northwest is chuck full of regiments you fellows at Washington won't
accept,' said I.Secretary, you'll need 'em all and
more before we get done with this Rebellion.'Well, sir, he was very
friendly before we finished, and I thought the thing was all thrashed
out.he goes back to Washington and gives it out that I'm
crazy, and want two hundred thousand men in Kentucky.Then I am ordered
to report to Halleck in Missouri here, and he calls me back from Sedalia
because he believes the lies."Stephen, who had in truth read the stories in question a month or two
before, could not conceal his embarrassment He looked at the man in
front of him,--alert, masterful intelligent, frank to any stranger who
took his fancy,--and wondered how any one who had talked to him could
believe them."They have to print something, General," he said."I'll give 'em something to print later on," answered the General,
grimly."Brinsmade, you fellows did have
a session with Fremont, didn't you?Anderson sent me over here last
September, and the first man I ran across at the Planters' House was
Appleton. ''To see Fremont,'
I said.'You don't think
Fremont'll see you, do you?''Well,' says Tom, 'go
'round to his palace at six to-morrow morning and bribe that Hungarian
prince who runs his body-guard to get you a good place in the line of
senators and governors and first citizens, and before nightfall you
may get a sight of him, since you come from Anderson.Not one man in
a hundred,' says Appleton, I not one man in a hundred, reaches his
chief-of-staff.'Next morning," the General continued in a staccato
which was often his habit, "had breakfast before daybreak and went
'round there.Place just swarming with Californians--army contracts."More
Californians, and by gad--old Baron Steinberger with his nose hanging
over the register.""Fremont was a little difficult to get at, General," said Mr."Things were confused and discouraged when those first contracts were
awarded.Fremont was a good man, and it wasn't his fault that the
inexperience of his quartermasters permitted some of those men to get
rich."To be sure
he was--didn't get along with Blair.These court-martials you're having
here now have stirred up the whole country.I guess we'll hear now how
those fortunes were made.To listen to those witnesses lie about each
other on the stand is better than the theatre."Stephen laughed at the comical and vivid manner in which the General set
this matter forth.He himself had been present one day of the sittings
of the court-martial when one of the witnesses on the prices of mules
was that same seedy man with the straw- mustache who had bid for
Virginia's piano against the Judge."Come, Stephen," said the General, abruptly, "run and snatch one of
those pretty girls from my officers."They deserve more, sir," answered Stephen.Whereupon the General laid
his hand impulsively on the young man's shoulder, divining what Stephen
did not say.said be; "you are doing the work in this war, not we.We
do the damage--you repair it.Brinsmade and you
gentlemen who help him, where would our Western armies be?Don't you
go to the front yet a while, young man.We need the best we have
in reserve.""You've had military
training of some sort?""He's a captain in the Halleck Guards, sir," said Mr.Brinsmade,
generously, "and the best drillmaster we've had in this city.He's seen
service, too, General."Stephen reddened furiously and started to protest, when the General
cried:-- "It's more than I have in this war.Come, come, I knew he was a
soldier.Let's see what kind of a strategist he'll make.Brinsmade, have
you got such a thing as a map?"Brinsmade had, and led the way back
into the library.The General shut the door, lighted a cigar with a
single vigorous stroke of a match, and began to smoke with quick puffs.Stephen was puzzled how to receive the confidences the General was
giving out with such freedom.When the map was laid on the table, the General drew a pencil from his
pocket and pointed to the state of Kentucky.Then he drew a line from
Columbus to Bowling Green, through Forts Donelson and Henry."Now, Stephen," said he, "there's the Rebel line.Show me the proper
place to break it."Stephen hesitated a while, and then pointed at the centre.He drew a heavy line across the
first, and it ran almost in the bed of the Tennessee River."Very question Halleck asked me the other day, and that's
how I answered it.Now, gentlemen, there's a man named Grant down in
that part of the country.Ever heard of him,
Brinsmade?He used to live here once, and a year ago he was less than I
was.The recollection of the scene in the street by the Arsenal that May
morning not a year gone came to Stephen with a shock."I saw him," he cried; "he was Captain Grant that lived on the Gravois
Road.But surely this can't be the same man who seized Paducah and was
in that affair at Belmont."They kicked him around Springfield awhile, after
the war broke out, for a military carpet-bagger.Then they gave him for
a regiment the worst lot of ruffians you ever laid eyes on.He made 'em march halfway across the
state instead of taking the cars the Governor offered.I guess
he is the man that chased the Rebs out of Belmont.Then his boys broke
loose when they got into the town.The Rebs
came back and chased 'em out into their boats on the river.Brinsmade,
you remember hearing about that."Grant did the coolest thing you ever saw.He sat on his horse at the
top of the bluff while the boys fell over each other trying to get on
the boat.Yes, sir, he sat there, disgusted, on his horse, smoking a
cigar, with the Rebs raising pandemonium all around him.And then, sir,"
cried the General, excitedly, "what do you think he did?Hanged if he
didn't force his horse right on to his haunches, slide down the whole
length of the bank and ride him across a teetering plank on to the
steamer.And the Rebs just stood on the bank and stared.They were so
astonished they didn't even shoot the man."And now, Stephen," he added, "just you run off and take hold
of the prettiest girl you can find.If any of my boys object, say I sent
you."It was little Tiefel, now a first
lieutenant with a bristly beard and tanned face, come to town on a few
days' furlough.He had been with Lyon at Wilson's Creek, and he had
a sad story to tell of how he found poor Richter, lying stark on that
bloody field, with a smile of peace upon his face.Strange that he
should at length have been killed by a sabre!It was a sad meeting for those two, since each reminded the other of
a dear friend they would see no more on earth.They went out to sup
together in the German style; and gradually, over his beer, Tiefel
forgot his sorrow.Stephen listened with an ache to the little man's
tales of the campaigns he had been through.So that presently Tiefel
cried out:

"Why, my friend, you are melancholy as an owl."He is no more crazy than I am," said Stephen, warmly--

"Is he not?"answered Tiefel, "then I will show you a mistake.You
recall last November he was out to Sedalia to inspect the camp there,
and he sleeps in a little country store where I am quartered.Now up
gets your General Sherman in the middle of the night,--midnight,--and
marches up and down between the counters, and waves his arms.So, says
he, 'land so,' says he, 'Sterling Price will be here, and Steele here,
and this column will take that road, and so-and-so's a damned fool.So he walks up and down for three eternal hours.Says
he, 'Pope has no business to be at Osterville, and Steele here at
Sedalia with his regiments all over the place.They must both go into
camp at La Mine River, and form brigades and divisions, that the troops
may be handled.'""If that's insanity," cried Stephen so strongly as to surprise the
little man; "then I wish we had more insane generals.It just shows
how a malicious rumor will spread.What Sherman said about Pope's and
Steele's forces is true as Gospel, and if you ever took the trouble to
look into that situation, Tiefel, you would see it."And Stephen brought
down his mug on the table with a crash that made the bystanders jump.It was not a month after that that Sherman's prophecy of the quiet
general who had slid down the bluff at Belmont came true.The whole
country bummed with Grant's praises.Moving with great swiftness and
secrecy up the Tennessee, in company with the gunboats of Commodore
Foote, he had pierced the Confederate line at the very point Sherman
had indicated.Fort Henry had fallen, and Grant was even then moving to
besiege Donelson.Brinsmade prepared to leave at once for the battlefield, taking with
him too Paducah physicians and nurses.All day long the boat was loading
with sanitary stores and boxes of dainties for the wounded.It was muggy
and wet--characteristic of that winter--as Stephen pushed through the
drays on the slippery levee to the landing.He had with him a basket his mother had put up.Brinsmade from the Judge It was while he was picking his way
along the crowded decks that he ran into General Sherman.The General
seized him unceremoniously by the shoulder."Good-by, Stephen," he said."Good-by, General," said Stephen, shifting his basket to shake hands."Ordered to Paducah," said the General.He pulled Stephen off the guards
into an empty cabin."Brice," said he, earnestly, "I haven't forgotten
how you saved young Brinsmade at Camp Jackson.They tell me that you are
useful here.I say, don't go in unless you have to.I don't mean force,
you understand.But when you feel that you can go in, come to me or
write me a letter.That is," he added, seemingly inspecting Stephen's
white teeth with approbation, "if you're not afraid to serve under a
crazy man."It has been said that the General liked the lack of effusiveness of
Stephen's reply.ELIPHALET PLAYS HIS TRUMPS

Summer was come again.Through interminable days, the sun beat down upon
the city; and at night the tortured bricks flung back angrily the heat
with which he had filled them.Great battles had been fought, and vast
armies were drawing breath for greater ones to come."Jinny," said the Colonel one day, "as we don't seem to be much use in
town, I reckon we may as well go to Glencoe."Virginia, threw her arms around her father's neck.For many months
she had seen what the Colonel himself was slow to comprehend--that his
usefulness was gone.The days melted into weeks, and Sterling Price and
his army of liberation failed to come.The vigilant Union general and
his aides had long since closed all avenues to the South.For, one fine
morning toward the end of the previous summer, when the Colonel was
contemplating a journey, he had read that none might leave the city
without a pass, whereupon he went hurriedly to the office of the Provost
Marshal.There he had found a number of gentlemen in the same plight,
each waving a pass made out by the Provost Marshal's clerks, and waiting
for that officer's signature.The Colonel also procured one of these,
and fell into line.The Marshal gazed at the crowd, pulled off his coat,
and readily put his name to the passes of several gentlemen going east.Bub Ballington, whom the Colonel knew, but pretended not
to."Not very profitable to be a minute-man, eh?"Ballington trying not to look indignant
as he makes for the door.A small silver bell rings on the Marshal's
desk, the one word: "Spot!"breaks the intense silence, which is one way
of saying that Mr.Ballington is detained, and will probably be lodged
that night at Government expense."Well, Colonel Carvel, what can I do for you this morning?"asked the
Marshal, genially.The Colonel pushed back his hat and wiped his brow."I reckon I'll wait
till next week, Captain," said Mr."It's pretty hot to travel
just now."There were many in the office who
would have liked to laugh, but it did not pay to laugh at some people.In the proclamation of martial law was much to make life less endurable
than ever.All who were convicted by a court-martial of being rebels
were to have property confiscated, and slaves set free.Then there was
a certain oath to be taken by all citizens who did not wish to have
guardians appointed over their actions.There were many who swallowed
this oath and never felt any ill effects.Jacob Cluyme was one, and
came away feeling very virtuous.Hopper did not have indigestion after taking it, but
Colonel Carvel would sooner have eaten, gooseberry pie, which he had
never tasted but once.That summer had worn away, like a monster which turns and gives hot
gasps when you think it has expired.It took the Arkansan just a month,
under Virginia's care, to become well enough to be sent to a Northern
prison He was not precisely a Southern gentleman, and he went to sleep
over the "Idylls of the King."But he was admiring, and grateful, and
wept when he went off to the boat with the provost's guard, destined
for a Northern prison.He had taken her away from
her aunt (who would have nothing to do with him), and had given her
occupation.She nor her father never tired of hearing his rough tales of
Price's rough army.His departure was about the time when suspicions were growing set.The
favor had caused comment and trouble, hence there was no hope of giving
another sufferer the same comfort.One of
the mysterious gentlemen who had been seen in the vicinity of Colonel
Carvel's house was arrested on the ferry, but he had contrived to be rid
of the carpet-sack in which certain precious letters were carried.Hopper's visits to Locust Street had
continued at intervals of painful regularity.It is not necessary to
dwell upon his brilliant powers of conversation, nor to repeat the
platitudes which he repeated, for there was no significance in Mr.The Colonel had found that out, and was
thankful.His manners were better; his English decidedly better.It was for her father's sake, of course, that Virginia bore with
him.She tried to be just, and it
occurred to her that she had never before been just.Again and again she
repeated to herself that Eliphalet's devotion to the Colonel at this
low ebb of his fortunes had something in it of which she did not suspect
him.Hopper as an uneducated Yankee
and a person of commercial ideals.But now he was showing virtues,--if
virtues they were,--and she tried to give him the benefit of the doubt.With his great shrewdness and business ability, why did he not take
advantage of the many opportunities the war gave to make a fortune?For Virginia had of late been going to the store with the Colonel,--who
spent his mornings turning over piles of dusty papers, and Mr.Hopper
had always been at his desk.After this, Virginia even strove to be kind to him, but it was uphill
work.The front door never closed after one of his visits that suspicion
was not left behind.Could it be that
there was a motive under all this plotting?He struck her inevitably as
the kind who would be content to mine underground to attain an end.The
worst she could think of him was that he wished to ingratiate himself
now, in the hope that, when the war was ended, he might become a partner
in Mr.She had put even this away as unworthy of her.Once she had felt compelled to speak to her father on the subject."I believe I did him an injustice, Pa," she said."Not that I like him
any better now.But I do think that if he had been as unscrupulous as I thought, he
would have deserted you long ago for something more profitable.He would
not be sitting in the office day after day making plans for the business
when the war is over."She remembered how sadly he had smiled at her over the top of his paper."You are a good girl, Jinny," he said.Toward the end of July of that second summer riots broke out in the
city, and simultaneously a bright spot appeared on Virginia's horizon.This took the form, for Northerners, of a guerilla scare, and an order
was promptly issued for the enrollment of all the able-bodied men in the
ten wards as militia, subject to service in the state, to exterminate
the roving bands.Whereupon her Britannic Majesty became extremely
popular,--even with some who claimed for a birthplace the Emerald Isle.Hundreds who heretofore had valued but lightly their British citizenship
made haste to renew their allegiance; and many sought the office of the
English Consul whose claims on her Majesty's protection were vague, to
say the least.For the first time,
when Virginia walked to the store with her father, Eliphalet was not
there."I don't blame him for not wanting to fight for the Yankees," she said."Then why doesn't he fight for the South he asked"

"Fight for the South!""I reckon not, too," said the Colonel, dryly.For the following week curiosity prompted Virginia to take that walk
with the Colonel.Hopper being still absent, she helped him to sort
the papers--those grimy reminders of a more prosperous time gone
by.Carvel would run across one which seemed to bring some
incident to his mind; for he would drop it absently on his desk, his
hand seeking his chin, and remain for half an hour lost in thought.The Colonel answered
them all truthfully--generally with that dangerous suavity for which he
was noted.Twice a seedy man with a gnawed yellow mustache had come in
to ask Eliphalet's whereabouts.On the second occasion this individual
became importunate."You don't know nothin' about him, you say?""I 'low I kin 'lighten you a little.""Good day, sir," said the Colonel."I guess you'll like to hear what I've got to say."Carvel in his natural voice, "show this man out."Ford slunk out without Ephum's assistance.But he half turned at the
door, and shot back a look that frightened Virginia."Oh, Pa," she cried, in alarm, "what did he mean?""I couldn't tell you, Jinny," he answered.But she noticed that he was
very thoughtful as they walked home.The next morning Eliphalet had not
returned, but a corporal and guard were waiting to search the store for
him.The Colonel read the order, and invited them in with hospitality.He even showed them the way upstairs, and presently Virginia heard them
all tramping overhead among the bales.Her eye fell upon the paper they
had brought, which lay unfolded on her father's desk.It was signed
Stephen A. Brice, Enrolling Officer.That very afternoon they moved to Glencoe, and Ephum was left in sole
charge of the store.At Glencoe, far from the hot city and the cruel
war, began a routine of peace.Virginia was a child again, romping
in the woods and fields beside her father.The color came back to her
cheeks once more, and the laughter into her voice.The two of them, and
Ned and Mammy, spent a rollicking hour in the pasture the freedom
of which Dick had known so long, before the old horse was caught and
brought back into bondage.After that Virginia took long drives with her
father, and coming home, they would sit in the summer house high above
the Merimec, listening to the crickets' chirp, and watching the day fade
upon the water.The Colonel, who had always detested pipes, learned to
smoke a corncob.He would sit by the hour, with his feet on the rail of
the porch and his hat tilted back, while Virginia read to him.Poe
and Wordsworth and Scott he liked, but Tennyson was his favorite.One afternoon when Virginia was sitting in the summer house alone, her
thoughts wandering back, as they sometimes did, to another afternoon
she had spent there,--it seemed so long ago,--when she saw Mammy Easter
coming toward her."Honey, dey's comp'ny up to de house.He's
on de porch, talkin' to your Pa.In truth, the solid figure of Eliphalet himself was on the path some
twenty yards behind her.His hat was in his hand; his hair was plastered
down more neatly than ever, and his coat was a faultless and sober
creation of a Franklin Avenue tailor.He carried a cane, which was
unheard of.Virginia sat upright, and patted her skirts with a gesture
of annoyance--what she felt was anger, resentment.Suddenly she rose,
swept past Mammy, and met him ten paces from the summer house."How-dy-do, Miss Virginia," he cried pleasantly."Your father had a
notion you might be here."Her greeting would have frozen a man
of ardent temperament.But it was not precisely ardor that Eliphalet
showed.There was something in
the man's air to-day.Her words seemed to relieve some tension in him."Well, I did, first of all.You're considerable smart, Miss Jinny, but
I'll bet you can't tell me where I was, now.""I cal'lated it might interest you to know
how I dodged the Sovereign State of Missouri.General Halleck made an
order that released a man from enrolling on payment of ten dollars.Then I was drafted into the Abe Lincoln Volunteers; I paid a
substitute.And so here I be, exercising life, and liberty, and the
pursuit of happiness.""If your substitute gets
killed, I suppose you will have cause for congratulation."Eliphalet laughed, and pulled down his cuffs."That's his lookout,
I cal'late," said he.He glanced at the girl in a way that made her
vaguely uneasy.She turned from him, back toward the summer house.Eliphalet's eyes smouldered as they rested upon her figure."I've heard considerable about the beauties of this place.Would you
mind showing me 'round a bit?"Not since that first evening in Locust Street had it taken on such
assurance, And yet she could not be impolite to a guest."Certainly not," she replied, but without looking up.He came to the summer house, glanced around it with apparent
satisfaction, and put his foot on the moss-grown step.She leaped quickly into the doorway before him, and
stood facing him, framed in the climbing roses.He drew back,
staring in astonishment at the crimson in her face.She had been groping
wildly for excuses, and found none."Because," she said, "because I ask you not to."With dignity: "That
should be sufficient.""Well," replied Eliphalet, with an abortive laugh, "that's funny, now.Womenkind get queer notions, which I cal'late we've got to respect and
put up with all our lives--eh?"Her anger flared at his leer and at his broad way of gratifying her
whim.And she was more incensed than ever at his air of being at
home--it was nothing less.She strove still to hide her
resentment."There is a walk along the bluff," she said, coldly, "where the view is
just as good."But she purposely drew him into the right-hand path, which led, after
a little, back to the house.Despite her pace he pressed forward to her
side."Miss Jinny," said he, precipitately, "did I ever strike you as a
marrying man?"Virginia stopped, and put her handkerchief to her face, the impulse
strong upon her to laugh.Eliphalet was suddenly transformed again into
the common commercial Yankee.He was in love, and had come to ask her
advice."I never thought of you as of the marrying kind, Mr.Hopper," she
answered, her voice quivering.Indeed, he was irresistibly funny as he stood hot and ill at ease.The
Sunday coat bore witness to his increasing portliness by creasing across
from the buttons; his face, fleshy and perspiring, showed purple veins,
and the little eyes receded comically, like a pig's."Well, I've been thinking serious of late about getting married," he
continued, slashing the rose bushes with his stick."I don't cal'late
to be a sentimental critter.I'm not much on high-sounding phrases, and
such things, but I'd give you my word I'd make a good husband.""Please be careful of those roses, Mr."Beg pardon," said Eliphalet.He began to lose track of his tenses--that
was the only sign he gave of perturbation.Louis
without a cent, Miss Jinny, I made up my mind I'd be a rich man before
I left it.If I was to die now, I'd have kept that promise.I'm not
thirty-four, and I cal'late I've got as much money in a safe place as a
good many men you call rich.I'm not saying what I've got, mind you.I've stopped chewing--there was a time when I
done that."That is all very commendable, Mr.Hopper," Virginia said, stifling a
rebellious titter."But,--but why did you give up chewing?""I am informed that the ladies are against it," said Eliphalet,--"dead
against it.You wouldn't like it in a husband, now, would you?"This time the laugh was not to be put down."I confess I shouldn't," she
said."Thought so," he replied, as one versed.His tones took on a nasal
twang."Well, as I was saying, I've about got ready to settle down, and
I've had my eye on the lady this seven years.""The lady," said Eliphalet, bluntly, "is you."He glanced at her
bewildered face and went on rapidly: "You pleased me the first day I set
eyes on you in the store I said to myself, 'Hopper, there's the one for
you to marry.'I'm plain, but my folks was good people.I set to work
right then to make a fortune for you, Miss Jinny.I'm a plain business man with no frills.You're the kind that was raised in the lap of luxury.You'll need a man
with a fortune, and a big one; you're the sort to show it off.I've got
the foundations of that fortune, and the proof of it right here.And I
tell you,"--his jaw was set,--"I tell you that some day Eliphalet Hopper
will be one of the richest men in the West."He had stopped, facing her in the middle of the way, his voice strong,
his confidence supreme.At first she had stared at him in dumb wonder.Then, as she began to grasp the meaning of his harangue, astonishment
was still dominant,--sheer astonishment.But,
as he finished, the thatch of the summer house caught her eye.A vision
arose of a man beside whom Eliphalet was not worthy to crawl.She
thought of Stephen as he had stood that evening in the sunset, and this
proposal seemed a degradation.But she caught the look on Eliphalet's
face, and she knew that he would not understand.This was one who
rose and fell, who lived and loved and hated and died and was buried
by--money.For a second she looked into his face as one who escapes a pit gazes
over the precipice, and shuddered.As for Eliphalet, let it not be
thought that he had no passion.This was the moment for which he had
lived since the day he had first seen her and been scorned in the store.That type of face, that air,--these were the priceless things he would
buy with his money.Crazed with the very violence of his long-pent
desire, he seized her hand.He staggered back, and stood for a moment motionless, as though stunned.Then, slowly, a light crept into his little eyes which haunted her for
many a day."You--won't--marry me?"exclaimed Virginia, her face burning with
the shame of it.She was standing with her hands behind her, her back
against a great walnut trunk, the crusted branches of which hung over
the bluff.Even as he looked at her, Eliphalet lost his head, and
indiscretion entered his soul.You've got no notion of my
money, I say."If you owned the whole of
California, I would not marry you."He
slipped his hand into a pocket, as one used to such a motion, and drew
out some papers."I cal'late you ain't got much idea of the situation, Miss Carvel," he
said; "the wheels have been a-turning lately.You're poor, but I guess
you don't know how poor you are,--eh?The Colonel's a man of honor,
ain't he?"For her life she could not have answered,--nor did she even know why she
stayed to listen."Well," he said, "after all, there ain't much use in your lookin' over
them papers.I'll tell you what they say: they
say that if I choose, I am Carvel & Company."The little eyes receded, and he waited a moment, seemingly to prolong a
physical delight in the excitement and suffering of a splendid creature."I cal'late you despise me, don't you?"he went on, as if that, too,
gave him pleasure."But I tell you the Colonel's a beggar but for me.All you've got to do is to say you'll be my
wife, and I tear these notes in two.(He
made the motion with his hands.)"Carvel & Company's an old firm,--a
respected firm.You wouldn't care to see it go out of the family, I
cal'late."But she did none of the things he expected.She said, simply:--"Will you please follow me, Mr.And he followed her,--his shrewdness gone, for once.Save for the rise and fall of her shoulders she seemed calm.The path
wound through a jungle of waving sunflowers and led into the shade in
front of the house.His
pipe lay with its scattered ashes on the boards, and his head was bent
forward, as though listening.When he saw the two, he rose expectantly,
and went forward to meet them."Pa," she said, "is it true that you have borrowed money from this man?"Carvel angry once, and his soul had quivered.Terror, abject terror, seized him now, so that his knees smote together.As well stare into the sun as into the Colonel's face.In one stride
he had a hand in the collar of Eliphalet's new coat, the other pointing
down the path."It takes just a minute to walk to that fence, sir," he said sternly."If you are any longer about it, I reckon you'll never get past it.Hopper's gait down the flagstones was
an invention of his own.It was neither a walk, nor a trot, nor a run,
but a sort of sliding amble, such as is executed in nightmares.Singing
in his head was the famous example of the eviction of Babcock from the
store,--the only time that the Colonel's bullet had gone wide.And down
in the small of his back Eliphalet listened for the crack of a pistol,
and feared that a clean hole might be bored there any minute.Once
outside, he took to the white road, leaving a trail of dust behind him
that a wagon might have raised.Fear lent him wings, but neglected to
lift his feet.The Colonel passed his arm around his daughter, and pulled his goatee
thoughtfully.And Virginia, glancing shyly upward, saw a smile in the
creases about his mouth: She smiled, too, and then the tears hid him
from her.Strange that the face which in anger withered cowards and made men look
grave, was capable of such infinite tenderness,--tenderness and sorrow.The Colonel took Virginia in his arms, and she sobbed against his
shoulder, as of old."Yes--"

"Lige was right, and--and you, Jinny--I should never have trusted him.The sun was slanting in yellow bars through
the branches of the great trees, and a robin's note rose above the bass
chorus of the frogs.In the pauses, as she listened, it seemed as if she
could hear the silver sound of the river over the pebbles far below."Honey," said the Colonel,--"I reckon we're just as poor as white
trash.""Honey," he said again, after a pause, "I must keep my word and let him
have the business.""There is a little left, a very little," he continued slowly, painfully.It was left you by Becky--by your mother.It is in a railroad company in New York, and safe, Jinny.""Oh, Pa, you know that I do not care," she cried."It shall be yours and
mine together.And we shall live out here and be happy."He was in his familiar
posture of thought, his legs slightly apart, his felt hat pushed back,
stroking his goatee.But his clear gray eyes were troubled as they
sought hers, and she put her hand to her breast."Virginia," he said, "I fought for my country once, and I reckon I'm
some use yet awhile.It isn't right that I should idle here, while
the South needs me, Your Uncle Daniel is fifty-eight, and Colonel of a
Pennsylvania regiment.--Jinny, I have to go."It was in her blood as well as his.The Colonel
had left his young wife, to fight in Mexico; he had come home to lay
flowers on her grave.She knew that he thought of this; and, too, that
his heart was rent at leaving her.She put her hands on his shoulders,
and he stooped to kiss her trembling lips.They walked out together to the summer-house, and stood watching the
glory of the light on the western hills."Jinn," said the Colonel, "I
reckon you will have to go to your Aunt Lillian.But I know that my girl can take care of herself.In case--in case I do
not come back, or occasion should arise, find Lige.Let him take you to
your Uncle Daniel.He is fond of you, and will be all alone in Calvert
House when the war is over.And I reckon that is all I have to say.I
won't pry into your heart, honey.I
like the boy, and I believe he will quiet down into a good man."Virginia did not answer, but reached out for her father's hand and held
its fingers locked tight in her own.From the kitchen the sound of Ned's
voice rose in the still evening air."Sposin' I was to go to N' Orleans an' take sick and die,
     Laik a bird into de country ma spirit would fly."And after a while down the path the red and yellow of Mammy Easter's
bandanna was seen.Laws, if I ain't ramshacked de premises fo' you
bof.De co'n bread's gittin' cold."That evening the Colonel and Virginia thrust a few things into her
little leather bag they had chosen together in London.Virginia had
found a cigar, which she hid until they went down to the porch, and
there she gave it to him; when he lighted the match she saw that his
hand shook.Half an hour later he held her in his arms at the gate, and she heard
his firm tread die in the dust of the road.WITH THE ARMIES OF THE WEST

We are at Memphis,--for a while,--and the Christmas season is
approaching once more.And yet we must remember that war recognizes no
Christmas, nor Sunday, nor holiday.The brown river, excited by rains,
whirled seaward between his banks of yellow clay.Now the weather was
crisp and cold, now hazy and depressing, and again a downpour.A spirit possessed the place, a restless
spirit called William T. Sherman.He prodded Memphis and laid violent
hold of her.She groaned, protested, turned over, and woke up, peopled
by a new people.When these walked, they ran, and they wore a blue
uniform.Rain nor heat nor
tempest kept them in.And yet they joked, and Memphis laughed (what was
left of her), and recognized a bond of fellowship.The General joked,
and the Colonels and the Commissary and the doctors, down to the sutlers
and teamsters and the salt tars under Porter, who cursed the dishwater
Mississippi, and also a man named Eads, who had built the new-fangled
iron boxes officially known as gunboats.The like of these had
never before been seen in the waters under the earth.The loyal
citizens--loyal to the South--had been given permission to leave the
city.The General told the assistant quartermaster to hire their houses
and slaves for the benefit of the Federal Government.Likewise he laid
down certain laws to the Memphis papers defining treason.He gave
out his mind freely to that other army of occupation, the army of
speculation, that flocked thither with permits to trade in cotton.The
speculators gave the Confederates gold, which they needed most, for the
bales, which they could not use at all.The forefathers of some of these gentlemen were in old Egypt under
Pharaoh--for whom they could have had no greater respect and fear than
their descendants had in New Egypt for Grant or Sherman.And a certain acquaintance of ours
materially added to his fortune by selling in Boston the cotton which
cost him fourteen cents, at thirty cents.One day the shouting and the swearing and the running to and fro came
to a climax.Those floating freaks which were all top and drew nothing,
were loaded down to the guards with army stores and animals and wood and
men,--men who came from every walk in life.Whistles bellowed, horses neighed.The gunboats chased hither and
thither, and at length the vast processions paddled down the stream with
naval precision, under the watchful eyes of a real admiral.Residents of Memphis from the river's bank watched the pillar of smoke
fade to the southward and ruminated on the fate of Vicksburg.A little later he wrote to the
Commander-in-Chief at Washington, "The valley of the Mississippi is
America."Vicksburg taken, this vast Confederacy would be chopped in two.Night fell to the music of the paddles, to the scent of the officers'
cigars, to the blood-red vomit of the tall stacks and the smoky flame of
the torches.Then Christmas Day dawned, and there was Vicksburg lifted
two hundred feet above the fever swamps, her court-house shining in
the morning sun.Vicksburg, the well-nigh impregnable key to America's
highway.When old Vick made his plantation on the Walnut Hills, he chose
a site for a fortress of the future Confederacy that Vauban would have
delighted in.Yes, there were the Walnut Hills, high bluffs separated from the
Mississippi by tangled streams and bayous, and on their crests the
Parrotts scowled.It was a queer Christmas Day indeed, bright and warm;
no snow, no turkeys nor mince pies, no wine, but just hardtack and bacon
and foaming brown water.On the morrow the ill-assorted fleet struggled up the sluggish Yazoo,
past impenetrable forests where the cypress clutched at the keels, past
long-deserted cotton fields, until it came at last to the black ruins of
a home.It spread out by brigade
and division and regiment and company, the men splashing and paddling
through the Chickasaw and the swamps toward the bluffs.The Parrotts
began to roar.A certain regiment, boldly led, crossed the bayou at a
narrow place and swept resistless across the sodden fields to where the
bank was steepest.The fire from the battery scorched the hair of their
heads.But there they stayed, scooping out the yellow clay with torn
hands, while the Parrotts, with lowered muzzles, ploughed the <DW72> with
shells.There they stayed, while the blue lines quivered and fell back
through the forests on that short winter's afternoon, dragging their
wounded from the stagnant waters.But many were left to die in agony in
the solitude.Like a tall emblem of energy, General Sherman stood watching the attack
and repulse, his eyes ever alert.He paid no heed to the shells which
tore the limbs from the trees about him, or sent the swamp water in
thick spray over his staff.Now and again a sharp word broke from his
lips, a forceful home thrust at one of the leaders of his columns."Sixth Missouri, General," said an aide, promptly.The General sat late in the Admiral's gunboat that night, but when
he returned to his cabin in the Forest Queen, he called for a list of
officers of the Sixth Missouri.His finger slipping down the roll paused
at a name among the new second lieutenants."Yes, General, when it fell dark.""Let me see the casualties,--quick."That night a fog rolled up from the swamps, and in the morning
jack-staff was hid from pilot-house.Before the attack could be renewed,
a political general came down the river with a letter in his pocket
from Washington, by virtue of which he took possession of the three army
core, and their chief, subpoenaed the fleet and the Admiral, and went
off to capture Arkansas Post.Three weeks later, when the army was resting at Napoleon, Arkansas, a
self-contained man, with a brown beard arrived from Memphis, and took
command.He smoked incessantly in his
cabin.He had look in his face that
boded ill to any that might oppose him.Time and labor be counted
as nothing, compared with the accomplishment of an object.Back to
Vicksburg paddled the fleet and transports.Across the river from the
city, on the pasty mud behind the levee's bank were dumped Sherman's
regiments, condemned to week of ditch-digging, that the gunboats might
arrive at the bend of the Mississippi below by a canal, out of reach of
the batteries.Day in and day out they labored, officer and men.Sawing
off stumps under the water, knocking poisonous snakes by scores from the
branches, while the river rose and rose and rose, and the rain crept
by inches under their tent flies, and the enemy walked the parapet of
Vicksburg and laughed.Two gunboats accomplished the feat of running the
batteries, that their smiles might be sobered.To the young officers who were soiling their uniform with the grease of
saws, whose only fighting was against fever and water snakes, the news
of an expedition into the Vicksburg side of the river was hailed with
caps in the air.To be sure, the saw and axe, and likewise the levee and
the snakes, were to be there, too.But there was likely to be a little
fighting.The rest of the corps that was to stay watched grimly as the
detachment put off in the little 'Diligence' and 'Silver Wave'.All the night the smoke-pipes were batting against the boughs of oak and
cottonwood, and snapping the trailing vines.Some other regiments
went by another route.The ironclads, followed in hot haste by General
Sherman in a navy tug, had gone ahead, and were even then shoving with
their noses great trunks of trees in their eagerness to get behind the
Rebels.The Missouri regiment spread out along the waters, and were soon
waist deep, hewing a path for the heavier transports to come.Presently
the General came back to a plantation half under water, where Black
Bayou joins Deer Creek, to hurry the work in cleaning out that Bayou.The light transports meanwhile were bringing up more troops from a
second detachment.All through the Friday the navy great guns were
heard booming in the distance, growing quicker and quicker, until
the quivering air shook the hanging things in that vast jungle.Saws
stopped, and axes were poised over shoulders, and many times that day
the General lifted his head anxiously.As he sat down in the evening in
a slave cabin redolent with corn pone and bacon, the sound still hovered
among the trees and rolled along the still waters.It was three o'clock Saturday morning when
the sharp challenge of a sentry broke the silence.A <DW64>, white eyed,
bedraggled, and muddy, stood in the candle light under the charge of a
young lieutenant.The officer saluted, and handed the General a roll of
tobacco."I found this man in the swamp, sir.He has a message from the
Admiral--"

The General tore open the roll and took from it a piece of tissue paper
which he spread out and held under the candle.He turned to a staff
officer who had jumped from his bed and was hurrying into his coat."Kilby Smith
and all men here across creek to relief at once.I'll take canoe through
bayou to Hill's and hurry reenforcements."The staff officer paused, his hand on the latch of the door.You're not going through that sewer in a
canoe without an escort!""I guess they won't look for a needle in that haystack," the General
answered."Get back to your
regiment, Brice, if you want to go," he said.All through the painful march that
followed, though soaked in swamp water and bruised by cypress knees, he
thought of Sherman in his canoe, winding unprotected through the black
labyrinth, risking his life that more men might be brought to the rescue
of the gunboats.The story of that rescue has been told most graphically by Sherman
himself.How he picked up the men at work on the bayou and marched them
on a coal barge; how he hitched the barge to a navy tug; how he met the
little transport with a fresh load of troops, and Captain Elijah Brent's
reply when the General asked if he would follow him."As long as the
boat holds together, General."The boughs hammered
at the smoke-pipes until they went by the board, and the pilothouse fell
like a pack of cards on the deck before they had gone three miles and a
half.Then the indomitable Sherman disembarked, a lighted candle in his
hand, and led a stiff march through thicket and swamp and breast-deep
backwater, where the little drummer boys carried their drums on their
heads.At length, when they were come to some Indian mounds, they found
a picket of three, companies of the force which had reached the flat the
day before, and had been sent down to prevent the enemy from obstructing
further the stream below the fleet."The Admiral's in a bad way, sir," said the Colonel who rode up to meet
the General.Those clumsy ironclads of his can't move
backward or forward, and the Rebs have been peppering him for two days."Just then a fusillade broke from the thickets, nipping the branches from
the cottonwoods about them.The force swept forward, with the three picket companies in the swamp on
the right.And presently they came in sight of the shapeless ironclads
with their funnels belching smoke, a most remarkable spectacle.How
Porter had pushed them there was one of the miracles of the war.Then followed one of a thousand memorable incidents in the life of a
memorable man.General Sherman, jumping on the bare back of a scrawny
horse, cantered through the fields.And the bluejackets, at sight of
that familiar figure, roared out a cheer that might have shaken the
drops from the wet boughs.The Admiral and the General stood together on
the deck, their hands clasped.And the Colonel astutely remarked, as he
rode up in answer to a summons, that if Porter was the only man whose
daring could have pushed a fleet to that position, Sherman was certainly
the only man who could have got him out of it."Colonel," said the General, "that move was well executed, sir.Admiral,
did the Rebs put a bullet through your rum casks?And now," he added, wheeling on the Colonel when each had a glass
in his hand, "who was in command of that company on the right, in the
swamp?"He's a second lieutenant, General, in the Sixth Missouri.Captain
wounded at Hindman, and first lieutenant fell out down below.His name
is Brice, I believe."Some few days afterward, when the troops were slopping around again at
Young's Point, opposite Vicksburg, a gentleman arrived on a boat
from St.He paused on the levee to survey with concern and
astonishment the flood of waters behind it, and then asked an officer
the way to General Sherman's headquarters.The officer, who was greatly
impressed by the gentleman's looks, led him at once to a trestle bridge
which spanned the distance from the levee bank over the flood to a house
up to its first floor in the backwaters.The officer looked inquiringly at the gentleman, who gave his name.The officer could not repress a smile at the next thing that happened.Out hurried the General himself, with both hands outstretched.he cried, "if it isn't Brinsmade.Come right in, come
right in and take dinner.I'll send
and tell Grant you're here.Brinsmade, if it wasn't for you and your
friends on the Western Sanitary Commission, we'd all have been dead of
fever and bad food long ago.""I guess a
good many of the boys are laid up now," he added."I've come down to do what I can, General," responded Mr."I want to go through all the hospitals to see that our nurses
are doing their duty and that the stores are properly distributed.""You shall, sir, this minute," said the General.He dropped instantly
the affairs which he had on hand, and without waiting for dinner the
two gentlemen went together through the wards where the fever raged.The
General surprised his visitor by recognizing private after private in
the cots, and he always had a brief word of cheer to brighten their
faces, to make them follow him with wistful eyes as he passed beyond
them."That's poor Craig," he would say, "corporal, Third Michigan.They
tell me he can't live," and "That's Olcott, Eleventh Indiana.cried the General, when they were out in the air again, "how I wish
some of these cotton traders could get a taste of this fever.They keep
well--the vultures--And by the way, Brinsmade, the man who gave me no
peace at all at Memphis was from your city.Why, I had to keep a whole
corps on duty to watch him."As long as
I live I shall never forget it."He has always seemed
inoffensive, and I believe he is a prominent member of one of our
churches.""I guess that's so," answered the General, dryly."I ever I set eyes on
him again, he's clapped into the guardhouse.Brinsmade, presently, "have
you ever heard of Stephen Brice?You may
remember talking to him one evening at my house."He
paused on the very brink of relating again the incident at Camp Jackson,
when Stephen had saved the life of Mr."Brinsmade,
for three days I've had it on my mind to send for that boy.I like him," cried General Sherman, with tone
and gesture there was no mistaking.Brinsmade, who liked
Stephen, too, rejoiced at the story he would have to tell the widow."He
has spirit, Brinsmade.I told him to let me know when he was ready to go
to war.The first thing I hear of
him is that he's digging holes in the clay of Chickasaw Bluff, and his
cap is fanned off by the blast of a Parrott six feet above his head.Next thing he turns up on that little expedition we took to get Porter
to sea again.When we got to the gunboats, there was Brice's company
on the flank.He handled those men surprisingly, sir--surprisingly.I
shouldn't have blamed the boy if one or two Rebs got by him.But no, he
swept the place clean."By this time they had come back to the bridge
leading to headquarters, and the General beckoned quickly to an orderly."My compliments to Lieutenant Stephen Brice, Sixth Missouri, and ask him
to report here at once.Brice's company were swinging axes when the
orderly arrived, and Mr.Brice had an axe himself, and was up to his
boot tops in yellow mud.The orderly, who had once been an Iowa farmer, was near grinning when he
gave the General's message and saw the lieutenant gazing ruefully at his
clothes.Entering headquarters, Stephen paused at the doorway of the big room
where the officers of the different staffs were scattered about,
smoking, while the <DW64> servants were removing the dishes from the
table.The sunlight, reflected from the rippling water outside, danced
on the ceiling.At the end of the room sat General Sherman, his uniform,
as always, a trifle awry.His soft felt hat with the gold braid was
tilted forward, and his feet, booted and spurred, were crossed.Small
wonder that the Englishman who sought the typical American found him in
Sherman.The sound that had caught Stephen's attention was the General's voice,
somewhat high-pitched, in the key that he used in telling a story."Sin gives you a pretty square deal, boys, after all.Generally a man
says, 'Well, I can resist, but I'll have my fun just this once.'Stephen made his way to the General, whose bright eyes wandered rapidly
over him as he added:

"This is the condition my officers report in, Brinsmade,--mud from head
to heel."Stephen had sense enough to say nothing, but the staff officers laughed,
and Mr.Brinsmade smiled as he rose and took Stephen's hand."I am delighted to see that you are well, sir," said he, with that
formal kindliness which endeared him to all."Your mother will be
rejoiced at my news of you.You will be glad to hear that I left her
well, Stephen.""They are well, sir, and took pleasure in adding to a little box which
your mother sent.Judge Whipple put in a box of fine cigars, although he
deplores the use of tobacco.""He is ailing, sir, it grieves me to say.Your mother desired to have him moved to her house,
but he is difficult to stir from his ways, and he would not leave his
little room.We have got old Nancy, Hester's mother,
to stay with him at night, and Mrs.Brice divides the day with Miss
Jinny Carvel, who comes in from Bellegarde every afternoon."exclaimed Stephen, wondering if he heard aright.And at
the mention of her name he tingled."She has been much honored
for it.You may remember that the Judge was a close friend of her
father's before the war.And--well, they quarrelled, sir."When--when was the Judge taken ill, Mr.The
thought of Virginia and his mother caring for him together was strangely
sweet."Two days before I left, sir, Dr.Polk had warned him not to do so much.But the Doctor tells me that he can see no dangerous symptoms."Brinsmade how long he was to be with them."I am going on to the other camps this afternoon," said he."But I
should like a glimpse of your quarters, Stephen, if you will invite
me.Your mother would like a careful account of you, and Mr.Whipple,
and--your many friends in St."You will find my tent a little wet, air," replied Stephen, touched.Here the General, who had been sitting by watching them with a very
curious expression, spoke up."That's hospitality for you, Brinsmade!"Brinsmade made their way across plank and bridge to
Stephen's tent, and his mess servant arrived in due time with the
package from home.But presently, while they sat talking of many things,
the canvas of the fly was thrust back with a quick movement, and who
should come stooping in but General Sherman himself.He sat down on a
cracker box."Well, well, Brice," said the General, winking at Mr.Brinsmade, "I
think you might have invited me to the feast.The General chose one and lighted
it."Why, yes, sir, when I can.""Then light up, sir," said the General, "and sit down, I've been
thinking lately of court-martialing you, but I decided to come 'round
and talk it over with you first.That isn't strictly according to
the rules of the service."They began to draft, sir, and I couldn't stand it any longer."You were in the Home Guards, if I
remember right.Brinsmade tells me you were useful in many ways
What was your rank in the Home Guards?""A second lieutenant in temporary command, General.""Couldn't they do better for you than a second-lieutenancy?"Brinsmade spoke up, "They offered him
a lieutenant-colonelcy."The General was silent a moment: Then he said "Do you remember meeting
me on the boat when I was leaving St.Louis, after the capture of Fort
Henry?""Very well, General," he replied, General Sherman leaned
forward."And do you remember I said to you, 'Brice, when you get ready to come
into this war, let me know.'Then he said gravely, but with just a
suspicion of humor about his mouth:-- "General, if I had done that, you
wouldn't be here in my tent to-day."Like lightning the General was on his feet, his hand on Stephen's
shoulder."By gad, sir," he cried, delighted, "so I wouldn't."A STRANGE MEETING

The story of the capture of Vicksburg is the old, old story of failure
turned into success, by which man is made immortal.It involves the
history of a general who never retraced his steps, who cared neither
for mugwump murmurs nor political cabals, who took both blame and praise
with equanimity.Through month after month of discouragement, and work
gone for naught, and fever and death, his eyes never left his goal.And
by grace of the wisdom of that President who himself knew sorrow and
suffering and defeat and unjust censure, General Grant won.The canal abandoned, one red night fleet and transports
swept around the bend and passed the city's heights, on a red river.The Parrotts and the Dahlgrens roared, and the high bluffs flung out the
sound over the empty swamp land.Then there came the landing below, and the cutting loose from a
base--unheard of.Corps behind cursed corps ahead for sweeping the
country clear of forage.Confederate generals in
Mississippi were bewildered.One night, while crossing with his regiment a pontoon bridge, Stephen
Brice heard a shout raised on the farther shore.Sitting together on
a log under a torch, two men in slouch hats were silhouetted.That one
talking with rapid gestures was General Sherman.The impassive profile
of the other, the close-cropped beard and the firmly held cigar that
seemed to go with it,--Stephen recognized as that of the strange Captain
Grant who had stood beside him in the street by the Arsenal He had not
changed a whit.Motionless, he watched corps after corps splash by,
artillery, cavalry, and infantry, nor gave any sign that he heard their
plaudits.At length the army came up behind the city to a place primeval, where
the face of the earth was sore and tortured, worn into deep gorges by
the rains, and flung up in great mounds.Stripped of the green magnolias
and the cane, the banks of clay stood forth in hideous yellow nakedness,
save for a lonely stunted growth, or a bare trunk that still stood
tottering on the edge of a banks its pitiful withered roots reaching out
below.First of all there was a murderous assault, and a still more murderous
repulse.Three times the besiegers charged, sank their color staffs
into the redoubts, and three times were driven back.Then the blue army
settled into the earth and folded into the ravines.Three days in that
narrow space between the lines lay the dead and wounded suffering untold
agonies in the moist heat.Then came a truce to bury the dead, to bring
back what was left of the living.Like clockwork from the Mississippi's banks
beyond came the boom and shriek of the coehorns on the barges.The big
shells hung for an instant in the air like birds of prey, and then could
be seen swooping down here and there, while now and anon a shaft of
smoke rose straight to the sky, the black monument of a home.Here was work in the trenches, digging the flying sap by night and
deepening it by day, for officers and men alike.From heaven a host of
blue ants could be seen toiling in zigzags forward, ever forward, along
the rude water-cuts and through the hills.A waiting carrion from her
vantage point on high marked one spot then another where the blue ants
disappeared, and again one by one came out of the burrow to hurry down
the trench,--each with his ball of clay.In due time the ring of metal and sepulchred voices rumbled in the
ground beneath the besieged.Counter mines were started, and through the
narrow walls of earth commands and curses came.Above ground the saps
were so near that a strange converse became the rule.Both sides were starving, the one for tobacco and
the other for hardtack and bacon.These necessities were tossed across,
sometimes wrapped in the Vicksburg news-sheet printed on the white
side of a homely green wall paper.At other times other amenities were
indulged in.Hand-grenades were thrown and shells with lighted fuses
rolled down on the heads of acquaintances of the night before, who
replied from wooden coehorns hooped with iron.The Union generals learned (common item in a siege) that the citizens
of Vicksburg were eating mule meat.Not an officer or private in the
Vicksburg armies who does not remember the 25th of June, and the hour
of three in an afternoon of pitiless heat.Silently the long blue files
wound into position behind the earth barriers which hid them from the
enemy, coiled and ready to strike when the towering redoubt on the
Jackson road should rise heavenwards.By common consent the rifle
crack of day and night was hushed, and even the Parrotts were silent.Stillness closed around the white house of Shirley once more, but not
the stillness it had known in its peaceful homestead days.This was
the stillness of the death prayer.Eyes staring at the big redoubt were
dimmed.At last, to those near, a little wisp of blue smoke crept out.The sun was darkened, and a hot
blast fanned the upturned faces.In the sky, through the film of
shattered clay, little black dots scurried, poised, and fell again as
arms and legs and head less trunks and shapeless bits of wood and iron.Scarcely had the dust settled when the sun caught the light of fifty
thousand bayonets, and a hundred shells were shrieking across the
crater's edge.Earth to earth, alas, and dust to dust!Men who ran
across that rim of a summer's after-noon died in torture under tier upon
tier of their comrades,--and so the hole was filled.An upright cannon marks the spot where a scrawny oak once stood on
a scarred and baked hillside, outside of the Confederate lines at
Vicksburg.Under the scanty shade of that tree, on the eve of the
Nation's birthday, stood two men who typified the future and the past.As at Donelson, a trick of Fortune's had delivered one comrade of old
into the hands of another.Now she chose to kiss the one upon whom she
had heaped obscurity and poverty and contumely.He had ceased to think
or care about Fortune.And hence, being born a woman, she favored him.They noted the friendly greeting
of old comrades, and after that they saw the self-contained Northerner
biting his cigar, as one to whom the pleasantries of life were past and
gone.The South saw her General turn on his heel.Both sides honored him for the fight he had made.But war
does not reward a man according to his deserts.The next day--the day our sundered nation was born Vicksburg
surrendered: the obstinate man with the mighty force had conquered.See
the gray regiments marching silently in the tropic heat into the folds
of that blue army whose grip has choked them at last.Silently, too, the
blue coats stand, pity and admiration on the brick-red faces.The arms
are stacked and surrendered, officers and men are to be parolled when
the counting is finished.The formations melt away, and those who for
months have sought each other's lives are grouped in friendly talk.The
coarse army bread is drawn eagerly from the knapsacks of the blue, smoke
quivers above a hundred fires, and the smell of frying bacon brings a
wistful look into the gaunt faces.Tears stand in the eyes of many a man
as he eats the food his Yankee brothers have given him on the birthday
of their country.Stephen Brice, now a captain in General
Lauman's brigade, sees with thanksgiving the stars and stripes flutter
from the dome of that court-house which he had so long watched from
afar.Later on, down a side street, he pauses before a house with its
face blown away.On the verge of one of its jagged floors is an old
four-posted bed, and beside it a child's cot is standing pitifully,--the
tiny pillow still at the head and the little sheets thrown across the
foot.So much for one of the navy's shells.While he was thinking of the sadness of it all, a little scene was
acted: the side door of the house opened, a weeping woman came out, and
with her was a tall Confederate Colonel of cavalry.Gallantly giving her
his arm, he escorted her as far as the little gate, where she bade him
good by with much feeling.With an impulsive movement he drew some money
from his pocket, thrust it upon her, and started hurriedly away that
he might not listen to her thanks.Such was his preoccupation that
he actually brushed into Stephen, who was standing beside a tree."Excuse me, seh," he said contritely."Certainly," said Stephen, smiling; "it was my fault for getting in your
way.""Not at all, seh," said the cavalry Colonel; "my clumsiness, seh."He did not pass on, but stood pulling with some violence a very long
mustache."Damn you Yankees," he continued, in the same amiable tone,
"you've brought us a heap of misfortune.Why, seh, in another week we'd
been fo'ced to eat <DW65>s."The Colonel made such a wry face that Stephen laughed in spite of
himself.He had marked the man's charitable action, and admired his
attempt to cover it.The Colonel seemed to be all breadth, like a card.The face was scant, perchance from lack
of food, the nose large, with a curved rim, and the eyes blue gray.He
wore clay-flecked cavalry boots, and was six feet five if an inch, so
that Stephen's six seemed insignificant beside him."Captain," he said, taking in Stephen's rank, "so we won't qua'l as to
who's host heah.One thing's suah," he added, with a twinkle, "I've been
heah longest.Seems like ten yeahs since I saw the wife and children
down in the Palmetto State.I can't offer you a dinner, seh.We've
eaten all the mules and rats and sugar cane in town."(His eye seemed to
interpolate that Stephen wouldn't be there otherwise.)"But I can offer
you something choicer than you have in the No'th."Whereupon he drew from his hip a dented silver flask.The Colonel
remarked that Stephen's eyes fell on the coat of arms."Prope'ty of my grandfather, seh, of Washington's Army.My name is
Jennison,--Catesby Jennison, at your service, seh," he said."You have
the advantage of me, Captain.""My name is Brice," said Stephen.The big Colonel bowed decorously, held out a great, wide hand, and
thereupon unscrewed the flask.Now Stephen had never learned to like
straight whiskey, but he took down his share without a face.The exploit
seemed to please the Colonel, who, after he likewise had done the liquor
justice, screwed on the lid with ceremony, offered Stephen his arm with
still greater ceremony, and they walked off down the street together.Stephen drew from his pocket several of Judge Whipple's cigars, to which
his new friend gave unqualified praise.On every hand Vicksburg showed signs of hard usage.Houses with gaping
chasms in their sides, others mere heaps of black ruins; great trees
felled, cabins demolished, and here and there the sidewalk ploughed
across from curb to fence."Lordy I how my ears ache since your
damned coehorns have stopped.The noise got to be silence with us, seh,
and yesterday I reckoned a hundred volcanoes had bust.Tell me," said he
"when the redoubt over the Jackson road was blown up, they said a <DW65>
came down in your lines alive."Yes," said Stephen, smiling; "he struck near the place where my company
was stationed."I reckon he fell on it," said Colonel Catesby Jennison, as if it were a
matter of no special note."And now tell me something," said Stephen."How did you burn our
sap-rollers?"This time the Colonel stopped, and gave himself up to hearty laughter."Why, that was a Yankee trick, sure enough," he cried."Some ingenious
cuss soaked port fire in turpentine, and shot the wad in a large-bore
musket."The Colonel laughed again, still more heartily."Explosive
bullets!--Good Lord, it was all we could do to get percussion caps.Do you know how we got percussion caps, seh?Three of our
officers--dare-devils, seh--floated down the Mississippi on logs.One
fellow made his way back with two hundred thousand.He's the pride of
our Vicksburg army.A chivalrous man, a forlorn-hope
man.The night you ran the batteries he and some others went across to
your side in skiffs--in skiffs, seh, I say--and set fire to the houses
in De Soto, that we might see to shoot.And then he came back in the
face of our own batteries and your guns.That man was wounded by a trick
of fate, by a cussed bit of shell from your coehorns while eating his
dinner in Vicksburg.He's pretty low, now, poor fellow," added the
Colonel, sadly.demanded Stephen, fired with a desire to see the man."Well, he ain't a great ways from here," said the Colonel."Perhaps you
might be able to do something for him," he continued thoughtfully."I'd
hate to see him die.The doctor says he'll pull through if he can get
care and good air and good food."He seized Stephen's arm in a fierce
grip."No," said the Colonel, thoughtfully, as to himself, "you don't look
like the man to fool."Whereupon he set out with great strides, in marked contrast to his
former languorous gait, and after a while they came to a sort of gorge,
where the street ran between high banks of clay.There Stephen saw the
magazines which the Confederates had dug out, and of which he had heard.But he saw something, too, of which he had not heard, Colonel Catesby
Jennison stopped before an open doorway in the yellow bank and knocked.A woman's voice called softly to him to enter.They went into a room hewn out of the solid clay.Carpet was stretched
on the floor, paper was on the walls, and even a picture.There was
a little window cut like a port in a prison cell, and under it a bed,
beside which a middle-aged lady was seated.She had a kindly face which
seemed to Stephen a little pinched as she turned to them with a gesture
of restraint.She pointed to the bed, where a sheet lay limply over the
angles of a wasted frame.said the lady,--"it is the first time in two days that he has
slept."But the sleeper stirred wearily, and woke with a start.The face, so yellow and peaked, was of the type that grows even more
handsome in sickness, and in the great fever-stricken eyes a high spirit
burned.For an instant only the man stared at Stephen, and then he
dragged himself to the wall.The eyes of the other two were both fixed on the young Union Captain.cried Jennison, seizing Stephen's rigid arm, "does he look as
bad as that?"I--I know him," answered Stephen.He stepped quickly to the bedside,
and bent over it."This is too much, Jennison," came from the bed a voice that was
pitifully weak; "why do you bring Yankees in here?""Captain Brice is a friend of yours, Colfax," said the Colonel, tugging
at his mustache.I have met Captain Colfax--"

"Colonel, sir.""Colonel Colfax, before the war!And if he would like to go to St.Louis, I think I can have it arranged at once."In silence they waited for Clarence's answer Stephen well knew what was
passing in his mind, and guessed at his repugnance to accept a favor
from a Yankee.He wondered whether there was in this case a special
detestation.And so his mind was carried far to the northward to the
memory of that day in the summer-house on the Meramee heights.Virginia
had not loved her cousin then--of that Stephen was sure.But now,--now
that the Vicksburg army was ringing with his praise, now that he was
unfortunate--Stephen sighed.His comfort was that he would be the
instrument.The lady in her uneasiness smoothed the single sheen that covered the
sick man.From afar came the sound of cheering, and it was this that
seemed to rouse him.And then, with
some vehemence, "What is he doing in Vicksburg?"Stephen looked at Jennison, who winced."The city has surrendered," said that officer."Then you can afford to be generous," he said, with a bitter laugh."But you haven't whipped us yet, by a good deal.Jennison," he cried,
"Jennison, why in hell did you give up?""Colfax," said Stephen, coming forward, "you're too sick a man to talk.It may be that I can have you sent North
to-day.""You can do as you please," said Clarence, coldly, "with a--prisoner."Bowing to the lady, he strode out of
the room.Colonel Jennison, running after him, caught him in the street."He's sick--and God Almighty,
he's proud--I reckon," he added with a touch of humility that went
straight to Stephen's heart."I reckon that some of us are too derned
proud--But we ain't cold."And I hope, Colonel, that we may meet
again--as friends.""Hold on, seh," said Colonel Catesby Jennison; "we
may as well drink to that."Fortunately, as Stephen drew near the Court House, he caught sight of
a group of officers seated on its steps, and among them he was quick to
recognize General Sherman."Brice," said the General, returning his salute, "been celebrating this
glorious Fourth with some of our Rebel friends?""Yes, sir," answered Stephen, "and I came to ask a favor for one of
them."Seeing that the General's genial, interested expression did not
change, he was emboldened to go on."This is one of their colonels, sir.He is the man who floated down the river on a
log and brought back two hundred thousand percussion caps--"

"Good Lord," interrupted the General, "I guess we all heard of him after
that.What else has he done to endear himself?""Well, General, he rowed across the river in a skiff the night we ran
these batteries, and set fire to De Soto to make targets for their
gunners.""I'd like to see that man," said the General, in his eager way."What I was going to tell you, sir.After he went through all this, he
was hit by a piece of mortar shell, while sitting at his dinner.He's
rather far gone now, General, and they say he can't live unless he can
be sent North.I--I know who he is in St.And I thought that as
long as the officers are to be paroled I might get your permission to
send him up to-day.""I know the breed," said he, "I'll bet he didn't
thank you.""I like his grit," said the General, emphatically, "These young bloods
are the backbone of this rebellion, Brice.They
never did anything except horse-racing and cock-fighting.They ride like
the devil, fight like the devil, but don't care a picayune for anything.And, good Lord, how
they hate a Yankee!He's a cousin of that
fine-looking girl Brinsmade spoke of.Be a
pity to disappoint her--eh?""Why, Captain, I believe you would like to marry her yourself!Take my
advice, sir, and don't try to tame any wildcats.""I'm glad to do a favor for that young man," said the General, when
Stephen had gone off with the slip of paper he had given him."I like to
do that kind of a favor for any officer, when I can.Did you notice how
he flared up when I mentioned the girl?"This is why Clarence Colfax found himself that evening on a hospital
steamer of the Sanitary Commission, bound north for St.BELLEGARDE ONCE MORE

Supper at Bellegarde was not the simple meal it had been for a year past
at Colonel Carvel's house in town.Colfax was proud of her table,
proud of her fried chickens and corn fritters and her desserts.How
Virginia chafed at those suppers, and how she despised the guests whom
her aunt was in the habit of inviting to some of them!And when none
was present, she was forced to listen to Mrs.Colfax's prattle about the
fashions, her tirades against the Yankees."I'm sure he must be dead," said that lady, one sultry evening in July.Her tone, however, was not one of conviction.A lazy wind from the river
stirred the lawn of Virginia's gown.The girl, with her hand on the
wicker back of the chair, was watching a storm gather to the eastward,
across the Illinois prairie."I don't see why you say that, Aunt Lillian," she replied."Bad news
travels faster than good."It is cruel of him not to send us a line,
telling us where his regiment is."She had long since learned that the wisdom of
silence was the best for her aunt's unreasonableness.Certainly, if
Clarence's letters could not pass the close lines of the Federal troops,
news of her father's Texas regiment could not come from Red River."How was Judge Whipple to-day?"Brice,--isn't that her name?--doesn't take him to
her house.Virginia began to rock slowly, and her foot tapped the porch.Brice has begged the Judge to come to her.But he says he has
lived in those rooms, and that he will die there,--when the time comes."You have become quite a Yankee
yourself, I believe, spending whole days with her, nursing that old
man.""The Judge is an old friend of my father's; I think he would wish it,"
replied the girl, in a lifeless voice.Her speech did not reveal all the pain and resentment she felt.She
thought of the old man racked with pain and suffering in the heat, lying
patient on his narrow bed, the only light of life remaining the presence
of the two women.They came day by day, and often Margaret Brice had
taken the place of the old negress who sat with him at night.Yes, it was worship; it had been worship since the
day she and her father had gone to the little whitewashed hospital.Providence had brought them together at the Judge's bedside.The
marvellous quiet power of the older woman had laid hold of the girl in
spite of all barriers.Often when the Judge's pain was eased sufficiently for him to talk, he
would speak of Stephen.The mother never spoke of her son, but a light
would come into her eyes at this praise of him which thrilled Virginia
to see.And when the good lady was gone, and the Judge had fallen into
slumber, it would still haunt her.Was it out of consideration for her that Mrs.Brice would turn the Judge
from this topic which he seemed to love best?Virginia could not admit
to herself that she resented this.She had heard Stephen's letters to
the Judge.Strong and manly they were, with plenty
of praises for the Southern defenders of Vicksburg.Only yesterday
Virginia had read one of these to Mr.Well
that his face was turned to the window, and that Stephen's mother was
not there!"He says very little about himself," Mr."Had it
not been for Brinsmade, we should never know that Sherman had his eye on
him, and had promoted him.We should never have known of that exploit
at Chickasaw Bluff.But what a glorious victory was Grant's capture of
Vicksburg, on the Fourth of July!I guess we'll make short work of the
Rebels now."No, the Judge had not changed much, even in illness.Virginia laid the letter down, and tears started to her eyes as
she repressed a retort.It was not the first time this had happened.How strange
that, with all his thought of others, he should fall short here!One day, after unusual forbearance, Mrs.Brice had overtaken Virginia
on the stairway.Well she knew the girl's nature, and how difficult she
must have found repression."My dear," she had said, "you are a wonderful woman."But
Virginia had driven back to Bellegarde with a strange elation in her
heart.Some things the Judge had forborne to mention, and for this Virginia was
thankful.But she had overheard Shadrach telling old
Nancy how Mrs.Brice had pleaded with him to move it, that he might have
more room and air.And Colonel Carvel's name had
never once passed his lips.Many a night the girl had lain awake listening to the steamboats as they
toiled against the river's current, while horror held her.Horror lest
her father at that moment be in mortal agony amongst the heaps left by
the battle's surges; heaps in which, like mounds of ashes, the fire was
not yet dead.Fearful tales she had heard in the prison hospitals of
wounded men lying for days in the Southern sun between the trenches at
Vicksburg, or freezing amidst the snow and sleet at Donelson.What a life had been
Colonel Carvel's!Another, and he had lost his fortune, his home, his friends, all that
was dear to him.And that daughter, whom he loved best in all the world,
he was perchance to see no more.Colfax, yawning, had taken a book and gone to bed.Still Virginia
sat on the porch, while the frogs sang of rain, and the lightning
quivered across the eastern sky.She heard the crunch of wheels in the
gravel.A bar of light, peopled by moths, slanted out of the doorway and fell
on a closed carriage."Your cousin Clarence has come home, my dear," he said."He was among
the captured at Vicksburg, and is paroled by General Grant."Brinsmade, tell me--all--"

"No, he is not dead, but he is very low.Russell has been kind
enough to come with me."But they were all there in the light,
in African postures of terror,--Alfred, and <DW71>, and Mammy Easter, and
Ned.They lifted the limp figure in gray, and carried it into the hall
chamber, his eyes closed, his face waxen under a beard brown and shaggy.Heavily, Virginia climbed the stairs to break the news to her aunt.There is little need to dwell on the dark days which followed--Clarence
hanging between life and death.That his life was saved was due to
Virginia and to Mammy Easter, and in no particle to his mother.Colfax flew in the face of all the known laws of nursing, until Virginia
was driven to desperation, and held a council of war with Dr.Then
her aunt grew jealous, talked of a conspiracy, and threatened to send
for Dr.By spells she wept,
when they quietly pushed her from the room and locked the door.She
would creep in to him in the night during Mammy Easter's watches and
talk him into a raging fever.But Virginia slept lightly and took the
alarm.More than one scene these two had in the small hours, while Ned
was riding post haste over the black road to town for the Doctor.By the same trusty messenger did Virginia contrive to send a note to
Mrs.Brice, begging her to explain her absence to Judge Whipple.By day
or night Virginia did not leave Bellegarde.Polk, while
walking in the garden, found the girl fast asleep on a bench, her sewing
on her lap.Would that a master had painted his face as he looked down
at her!'Twas he who brought Virginia daily news of Judge Whipple.He had become more querulous
and exacting with patient Mrs.But often, when he got into his buggy the Doctor found
the seat filled with roses and fresh fruit.What Virginia's feelings were at this time no one will ever know.God
had mercifully given her occupation, first with the Judge, and later,
when she needed it more, with Clarence.It was she whom he recognized
first of all, whose name was on his lips in his waking moments.With
the petulance of returning reason, he pushed his mother away.Unless
Virginia was at his bedside when he awoke, his fever rose.He put his
hot hand into her cool one, and it rested there sometimes for hours.Then, and only then, did he seem contented.The wonder was that her health did not fail.People who saw her during
that fearful summer, fresh and with color in her cheeks, marvelled.Great-hearted Puss Russell, who came frequently to inquire, was quieted
before her friend, and the frank and jesting tongue was silent in that
presence.Anne Brinsmade came with her father and wondered.Her poise, her gentleness, her dignity, were the
effects which people saw.And this is why
we cannot of ourselves add one cubit to our stature.It is God who
changes,--who cleanses us of our levity with the fire of trial.Happy,
thrice happy, those whom He chasteneth.And yet how many are there who
could not bear the fire--who would cry out at the flame.Little by little Clarence mended, until he came to sit out on the porch
in the cool of the afternoon.Then he would watch for hours the tassels
stirring over the green fields of corn and the river running beyond,
while the two women sat by.Colfax's headaches came
on, and Virginia was alone with him, he would talk of the war; sometimes
of their childhood, of the mad pranks they played here at Bellegarde,
of their friends.Only when Virginia read to him the Northern account of
the battles would he emerge from a calm sadness into excitement; and
he clenched his fists and tried to rise when he heard of the capture of
Jackson and the fall of Port Hudson.Of love he spoke not a word, and
now that he was better he ceased to hold her hand.But often when she
looked up from her book, she would surprise his dark eyes fixed upon
her, and a look in them of but one interpretation.The Doctor came but every other day now, in the afternoon.It was his
custom to sit for a while on the porch chatting cheerily with Virginia,
his stout frame filling the rocking-chair.Polk's indulgence was
gossip--though always of a harmless nature: how Mr.Cluyme always
managed to squirm over to the side which was in favor, and how Maude
Catherwood's love-letter to a certain dashing officer of the Confederate
army had been captured and ruthlessly published in the hateful Democrat.It was the Doctor who gave Virginia news of the Judge, and sometimes he
would mention Mrs.Then Clarence would raise his head; and once
(she saw with trepidation) he had opened his lips to speak.One day the Doctor came, and Virginia looked into his face and divined
that he had something to tell her.He sat but a few moments, and when he
arose to go he took her hand."I have a favor to beg of you, Jinny," he said, "Judge has lost his
nurse.Do you think Clarence could spare you for a little while every
day?Polk continued, somewhat hurriedly for
him, "but the Judge cannot bear a stranger near him, and I am afraid to
have him excited while in this condition."And Clarence, watching, saw her color
go.Polk, "but her son Stephen has come home from the
army.He was transferred to Lauman's brigade, and then he was wounded."He jangled the keys in his pocket and continued "It seems that he had no
business in the battle.Johnston in his retreat had driven animals into
all the ponds and shot them, and in the hot weather the water was soon
poisoned.Brice was scarcely well enough to stand when they made
the charge, and he is now in a dreadful condition He is a fine fellow,"
added the Doctor, with a sigh, "General Sherman sent a special physician
to the boat with him.He is--" Subconsciously the Doctor's arm sought
Virginia's back, as though he felt her swaying.But he was looking at
Clarence, who had jerked himself forward in his chair, his thin hands
convulsively clutching at the arms of it.In his astonishment the Doctor passed his palm across his brow, and for
a moment he did not answer.Virginia had taken a step from him, and was
standing motionless, almost rigid, her eyes on his face.he said, repeating the word mechanically; "my God, I hope not.The danger is over, and he is resting easily.If he were not," he said
quickly and forcibly, "I should not be here."The Doctor's mare passed more than one fleet--footed trotter on the
road to town that day.And the Doctor's black servant heard his master
utter the word "fool" twice, and with great emphasis.For a long time Virginia stood on the end of the porch, until the
heaving of the buggy harness died on the soft road, She felt Clarence
gaze upon her before she turned to face him."Virginia, sit here a moment; I have something to tell you."She came and took the chair beside him, her heart beating, her breast
rising and falling.She looked into his eyes, and her own lashes fell
before the hopelessness there But he put out his fingers wasted by
illness, and she took them in her own.He began slowly, as if every word cost him pain.I cannot remember the time
when I did not love you, when I did not think of you as my wife.All I
did when we played together was to try to win your applause.That was my
nature I could not help it.Do you remember the day I climbed out on the
rotten branch of the big pear tree yonder to get you that pear--when
I fell on the roof of Alfred's cabin?It was
because you kissed it and cried over me.You are crying now," he said
tenderly.It isn't to make you sad that I am saying this."I have had a great deal of time to think lately, Jinny, I was not
brought up seriously,--to be a man.I have been thinking of that day
just before you were eighteen, when you rode out here.The grapes were purple, and a purple
haze was over there across the river.You were
grown a woman then, and I was still nothing but a boy.Do you remember
the doe coming out of the forest, and how she ran screaming when I tried
to kiss you?It was true what you said, that I was wild and utterly useless,
I had never served or pleased any but myself,--and you.I had never
studied or worked, You were right when you told me I must learn
something,--do something,--become of some account in the world."Clarence, after what you have done for the South?""Crossed the river and burned
houses.Floated down the river on a log
after a few percussion caps."And how many had the courage to do that?""Pooh," he said, "courage!If I did not
have that, I would send <DW71> to my father's room for his ebony box and
blow my brains out.No, Jinny, I am nothing but a soldier of fortune.I never possessed any quality but a wild spirit for adventure, to
shirk work.I wanted to go with Walker, you remember.I wanted to distinguish myself," he added with a gesture."But
that is all gone now, Jinny.Now
I see how an earnest life might have won you.She raised her head, frightened, and looked at him searchingly."One day," he said, "one day a good many years ago you and I and Uncle
Comyn were walking along Market Street in front of Judge Whipple's
office, and a slave auction was going on.A girl was being sold on whom
you had set your heart.There was some one in the crowd, a Yankee, who
bid her in and set her free.He saw her profile, her lips parted, her look far away, She inclined her
head."Yes," said her cousin, "so do I remember him.He has crossed my path
many times since, Virginia.And mark what I say--it was he whom you
had in mind on that birthday when you implored me to make something of
myself, It was Stephen Brice.""I dare anything, Virginia," he answered quietly.And I am sure that you did not realize that he was the ideal which you
had in mind.""The impression of him has never left it.Again, that
night at the Brinsmades', when we were in fancy dress, I felt that I had
lost you when I got back.He had been there when I was away, and gone
again."It was a horrible mistake, Max," she faltered."I was waiting for you
down the road, and stopped his horse instead.It--it was nothing--"

"It was fate, Jinny.How I hated that
man," he cried, "how I hated him?""Yes," he said, "hated!But now--"

"But now?"I have not--I could not tell you before: He
came into the place where I was lying in Vicksburg, and they told
him that my only chance was to come North, I turned my back upon him,
insulted him.Yet he went to Sherman and had me brought home--to you,
Virginia.If he loves you,--and I have long suspected that he does--"

"Oh, no," she cried, hiding her face "No.""I know he loves you, Jinny," her cousin continued calmly, inexorably.It was a brave
thing to do, and a generous.He
thought that he was saving me for you.He was giving up the hope of
marrying you himself."Unless you had seen her then, you had never
known the woman in her glory."Clarence Colfax, have you known and loved
me all my life that you might accuse me of this?"Jinny, do you mean it?"In answer she bent down with all that gentleness and grace that
was hers, and pressed her lips to his forehead.Long after she had
disappeared in the door he sat staring after her.But later, when Mammy Easter went to call her mistress for supper, she
found her with her face buried in the pillows.CHAPTER X. IN JUDGE WHIPPLE'S OFFICE

After this Virginia went to the Judge's bedside every day, in the
morning, when Clarence took his sleep.She read his newspapers to him
when he was well enough.She read the detested Missouri Democrat, which
I think was the greatest trial Virginia ever had to put up with.To have
her beloved South abused, to have her heroes ridiculed, was more than
she could bear.Once, when the Judge was perceptibly better, she flung
the paper out of the window, and left the room."My dear," he said, smiling admiration, "forgive an old bear.A selfish
old bear, Jinny; my only excuse is my love for the Union.When you are
not here, I lie in agony, lest she has suffered some mortal blow unknown
to me, Jinny.And if God sees fit to spare our great country, the day
will come when you will go down on your knees and thank Him for the
inheritance which He saved for your children.You are a good woman, my
dear, and a strong one.I have hoped that you will see the right.That you will marry a great citizen, one unwavering in his service and
devotion to our Republic."The Judge's voice trembled with earnestness
as he spoke.And the gray eyes under the shaggy brows were alight with
the sacred fire of his life's purpose.Undaunted as her spirit was, she
could not answer him then.Once, only once, he said to her: "Virginia, I loved your father better
than any man I ever knew.Please God I may see him again before I die."But sometimes at twilight his eyes would
rest on the black cloth that hid it.Virginia herself never touched that cloth to her it seemed the shroud
upon a life of happiness that was dead and gone.Virginia had not been with Judge Whipple during the critical week after
Stephen was brought home.But Anne had told her that his anxiety was
a pitiful thing to see, and that it had left him perceptibly weaker.So fast that on some days
Virginia, watching him, would send Ned or Shadrach in hot haste for Dr.At noon Anne would relieve Virginia,--Anne or her mother,--and
frequently Mr.For it is those who have
the most to do who find the most time for charitable deeds.As the hour
for their coming drew near, the Judge would be seeking the clock, and
scarce did Anne's figure appear in the doorway before the question had
arisen to his lips--"And how is my young Captain to-day?"That is what he called him,--"My young Captain."Virginia's choice of
her cousin, and her devotion to him, while seemingly natural enough,
had drawn many a sigh from Anne.She thought it strange that Virginia
herself had never once asked her about Stephen's condition and she spoke
of this one day to the Judge with as much warmth as she was capable of."Jinny's heart is like steel where a Yankee is concerned.If her best
friend were a Yankee--"

Judge Whipple checked her, smiling."She has been very good to one Yankee I know of," he said.Brice, I believe she worships her.""But when I said that Stephen was much better to-day, she swept out of
the room as if she did not care whether he lived or died.""Well, Anne," the Judge had answered, "you women are a puzzle to me.I
guess you don't understand yourselves," he added.That was a strange month in the life of Clarence Colfax,--the last
of his recovery, while he was waiting for the news of his exchange.Bellegarde was never more beautiful, for Mrs.Colfax had no whim of
letting the place run down because a great war was in progress.Though
devoted to the South, she did not consecrate her fortune to it.Clarence
gave as much as he could.Whole afternoons Virginia and he would sit in the shaded arbor seat;
or at the cool of the day descend to the bench on the lower tier of
the summer garden, to steep, as it were, in the blended perfumes of the
roses and the mignonettes and the pinks.Often through the night he pondered on the change in her.But he was troubled to analyze her gravity, her dignity.Was this
merely strength of character, the natural result of the trials through
which she had passed, the habit acquired of being the Helper and
comforter instead of the helped and comforted?Long years afterward the
brightly  portrait of her remained in his eye,--the simple linen
gown of pink or white, the brown hair shining in the sunlight, the
graceful poise of the head.And the background of flowers--flowers
everywhere, far from the field of war.Sometimes, when she brought his breakfast on a tray in the morning,
there was laughter in her eyes.In the days gone by they had been all
laughter.He said it over to himself
many, many times in the day.He would sit for a space, feasting his eyes
upon her until she lifted her look to his, and the rich color flooded
her face.He was not a lover to sit quietly by, was Clarence.And yet,
as the winged days flew on, that is what he did, It was not that she
did not respond to his advances, he did not make them.Was it the chivalry inherited from a long life of Colfaxes who
were gentlemen?Something of awe had crept into his feeling
for her.As the month wore on, and the time drew near for him to go back to the
war, a state that was not quite estrangement, and yet something very
like it, set in.Doubts bothered him, and he dared not
give them voice.By night he would plan his speeches,--impassioned,
imploring.To see her in her marvellous severity was to strike him dumb.Whether she loved him, whether she did not love
him, she would not give him up.Through the long years of their lives
together, he would never know.He was not a weak man now, was Clarence
Colfax.He was merely a man possessed of a devil, enchained by the power
of self-repression come upon her whom he loved.And day by day that power seemed to grow more intense,--invulnerable.Among her friends and in the little household it had raised Virginia to
heights which she herself did not seem to realize.She was become the
mistress of Bellegarde.Colfax was under its sway, and doubly
miserable because Clarence would listen to her tirades no more.Nor had
she taken pains to hide the sarcasm in her voice.His answer, bringing with it her remembrance of her husband at certain
times when it was not safe to question him, had silenced her.Addison
Colfax had not been a quiet man."Whenever Virginia is ready, mother," he had replied.He knew in his heart that if he were to ask her permission
to send for Dr.Posthelwaite to-morrow that she would say yes.Tomorrow
came,--and with it a great envelope, an official, answer to Clarence's
report that he was fit for duty once more.He
was to proceed to Cairo, there to await the arrival of the transport
Indianapolis, which was to carry five hundred officers and men from
Sandusky Prison, who were going back to fight once more for the
Confederacy.O that they might have seen the North, all those brave men
who made that sacrifice.That they might have realized the numbers and
the resources and the wealth arrayed against them!It was a cool day for September, a perfect day, an auspicious day, and
yet it went the way of the others before it.This was the very fulness
of the year, the earth giving out the sweetness of her maturity, the
corn in martial ranks, with golden plumes nodding.The forest still
in its glory of green.They walked in silence the familiar paths, and
Alfred, clipping the late roses for the supper table, shook his
white head as they passed him.The sun, who had begun to hurry on his
southward journey, went to bed at six.The few clothes Clarence was to
take with him had been packed by Virginia in his bag, and the two were
standing in the twilight on the steps of the house, when Ned came around
the corner.He called his young mistress by name, but she did not hear
him.She started as from a sleep, and paused.He wore that air of mystery so
dear to darkeys."Gemmen to see you, Miss Jinny."The <DW64> pointed to the lilac shrubbery.said Clarence, sharply: "If a man is
there, bring him here at once.""Reckon he won't come, Marse Clarence."said Ned, "He fearful skeered ob
de light ob day.He got suthin very pertickler fo' Miss Jinny.""No sah--yessah--leastwise I'be seed 'um.The word was hardly out of his mouth before Virginia had leaped down the
four feet from the porch to the flower-bed and was running across the
lawn toward the shrubbery.Parting the bushes after her, Clarence found
his cousin confronting a large man, whom he recognized as the carrier
who brought messages from the South."Pa has got through the lines," she said breathlessly."He--he came up
to see me."He went to Judge Whipple's rooms, ma'am.I
reckoned you knew it, Miss Jinny," Robinson added contritely."Clarence," she said, "I must go at once.""I will go with you," he said; "you cannot go alone."In a twinkling Ned
and <DW71> had the swift pair of horses harnessed, and the light carriage
was flying over the soft clay road toward the city.Brinsmade's place, the moon hung like a great round lantern under
the spreading trees about the house.Clarence caught a glimpse of his
cousin's face in the light.She was leaning forward, her gaze fixed
intently on the stone posts which stood like monuments between the
bushes at the entrance.Then she drew back again into the dark corner
of the barouche.She was startled by a sharp challenge, and the carriage
stopped.Looking out, she saw the provost's guard like black card
figures on the road, and Ned fumbling for his pass.On they drove into the city streets until the dark bulk of the Court
House loomed in front of them, and Ned drew rein at the little stairway
which led to the Judge's rooms.Virginia, leaping out of the carriage,
flew up the steps and into the outer office, and landed in the Colonel's
arms."Why do you risk your life in this way?If the
Yankees catch you--"

"They won't catch me, honey," he answered, kissing her.Then he held her
out at arm's length and gazed earnestly into her face.Trembling, she
searched his own."I'm not precisely young, my dear," he said, smiling.His hair was
nearly white, and his face scared.But he was a fine erect figure of a
man, despite the shabby clothes he wore, and the mud-bespattered boots."Pa," she whispered, "it was foolhardy to come here."I came to see you, Jinny, I reckon.And when I got home to-night and
heard Silas was dying, I just couldn't resist.He's the oldest friend
I've got in St.Louis, honey and now--now--"

"Pa, you've been in battle?""And you weren't hurt; I thank God for that," she whispered.After a
while: "Is Uncle Silas dying?"Polk is in there now, and says that he can't last
through the night.Silas has been asking for you, honey, over and over.He says you were very good to him,--that you and Mrs.Brice gave up
everything to nurse him.""She was here night and day until her son
came home.She is a noble woman--"

"Her son?"Silas has done nothing
the last half-hour but call his name.He says he must see the boy before
he dies.Polk says he is not strong enough to come.""Oh, no, he is not strong enough," cried Virginia.The Colonel looked
down at her queerly.She turned hurriedly, glanced around
the room, and then peered down the dark stairway.I wonder why he did not follow me up?"Then after a long pause, seeing her father said nothing, she added,
"Perhaps he was waiting for you to see me alone.I will go down to see
if he is in the carriage."The Colonel started with her, but she pulled him back in alarm."You will be seen, Pa," she cried.He stayed at the top of the passage, holding open the door that she
might have light.When she reached the sidewalk, there was Ned standing
beside the horses, and the carriage empty.Fust I seed was a man plump out'n Willums's, Miss Jinny.He was
a-gwine shufflin' up de street when Marse Clarence put out after him,
pos' has'e.She stood for a moment on the pavement in thought, and paused on the
stairs again, wondering whether it were best to tell her father.Perhaps
Clarence had seen--she caught her breath at the thought and pushed open
the door."Oh, Pa, do you think you are safe here?""Why, yes, honey, I
reckon so," he answered."Ned says he ran after a man who was hiding in an entrance.Pa, I am
afraid they are watching the place.""I don't think so, Jinny.I came here with Polk, in his buggy, after
dark."Virginia, listening, heard footsteps on the stairs, and seized her
father's sleeve."Think of the risk you are running, Pa," she whispered.She would have
dragged him to the closet.Brinsmade entered, and with him a lady veiled.How long
he stared at his old friend Virginia could not say.It seemed to her an
eternity.Brice has often told since how straight the Colonel
stood, his fine head thrown back, as he returned the glance.Brinsmade came forward, with his hand outstretched."Comyn," said he, his voice breaking a little, "I have known you these
many years as a man of unstained honor.God will judge whether I have done my duty.""I give
you my word of honor as a gentleman that I came into this city for no
other reason than to see my daughter.And hearing that my old friend was
dying, I could not resist the temptation, sir--"

Mr.How many men do you think would risk their
lives so, Mrs."Thank God he will now
die happy.I know it has been much on his mind.""And in his name, madam,--in the name of my oldest and best friend,--I
thank you for what you have done for him.I trust that you will allow me
to add that I have learned from my daughter to respect and admire you.I
hope that your son is doing well.""He is, thank you, Colonel Carvel.If he but knew that the Judge were
dying, I could not have kept him at home.Polk says that he must not
leave the house, or undergo any excitement."Just then the door of the inner room opened, and Dr.Brinsmade, and he patted Virginia."The Judge is still asleep," he said gently."And--he may not wake up in
this world."Silently, sadly, they went together into that little room where so
much of Judge Whipple's life had been spent.And
how completely they filled it,--these five people and the big Rothfield
covered with the black cloth.Virginia pressed her father's arm as they
leaned against it, and brushed her eyes.The Doctor turned the wick of
the night-lamp.What was that upon the sleeper's face from which they drew back?The divine light which is shed upon those
who have lived for others, who have denied themselves the lusts of the
flesh, For a long space, perhaps an hour, they stayed, silent save for
a low word now and again from the Doctor as he felt the Judge's heart.Tableaux from the past floated before Virginia's eyes.Of the old days,
of the happy days in Locust Street, of the Judge quarrelling with her
father, and she and Captain Lige smiling nearby.And she remembered how
sometimes when the controversy was finished the Judge would rub his nose
and say:

"It's my turn now, Lige."Whereupon the Captain would open the piano, and she would play the hymn
that he liked best.What was it in Silas Whipple's nature that courted the pain of memories?What pleasure could it have been all through his illness to look upon
this silent and cruel reminder of days gone by forever?She had heard
that Stephen Brice had been with the Judge when he had bid it in.She
wondered that he had allowed it, for they said that he was the only
one who had ever been known to break the Judge's will.Virginia's
eyes rested on Margaret Brice, who was seated at the head of the bed,
smoothing the pillows The strength of Stephen's features were in hers,
but not the ruggedness.Her features were large, indeed, yet stanch and
softened.The widow, as if feeling Virginia's look upon her, glanced up
from the Judge's face and smiled at her.The girl  with pleasure,
and again at the thought which she had had of the likeness between
mother and son.Still the Judge slept on, while they watched.And at length the thought
of Clarence crossed Virginia's mind.Whispering to her father, she stole out on tiptoe.Descending to the street, she was unable to gain any news of Clarence
from Ned, who was becoming alarmed likewise.Perplexed and troubled, she climbed the stairs again.No sound came from
the Judge's room Perhaps Clarence would be back at any moment.She sat down to think,--her elbows on the desk
in front of her, her chin in her hand, her eyes at the level of a line
of books which stood on end.--Chitty's Pleadings, Blackstone, Greenleaf
on Evidence.Absently; as a person whose mind is in trouble, she reached
out and took one of them down and opened it.Across the flyleaf, in a
high and bold hand, was written the name, Stephen Atterbury Brice.She dropped the book, and, rising abruptly, crossed quickly to the other
side of the room.Then she turned, hesitatingly, and went back.This was
his desk--his chair, in which he had worked so faithfully for the man
who lay dying beyond the door.For him whom they all loved--whose last
hours they were were to soothe.Wars and schisms may part our bodies,
but stronger ties unite our souls.Through Silas Whipple, through his
mother, Virginia knew that she was woven of one piece with Stephen
Brice.In a thousand ways she was reminded, lest she drive it from her
belief.She might marry another, and that would not matter.She sank again into his chair, and gave herself over to the thoughts
crowding in her heart.How the threads of his life ran next to hers, and
crossed and recrossed them.The slave auction, her dance with him, the
Fair, the meeting at Mr.Brinsmade's gate,--she knew them all.Her dreams of him--for she did dream
of him.And now he had saved Clarence's life that she might marry her
cousin.Again she glanced at the
signature in the book, as if fascinated by the very strength of it.She
turned over a few pages of the book, "Supposing the defendant's counsel
essays to prove by means of--" that was his writing again, a marginal,
note.There were marginal notes on every page--even the last was covered
with them, And then at the end, "First reading, February, 1858.Bought with some of money obtained by first article
for M.That capacity for work, incomparable gift, was what she had
always coveted the most.Again she rested her elbows on the desk and her
chin on her hands, and sighed unconsciously.She had not heard the step on the stair.She did not know that any one wage in the room until she heard his
voice, and then she thought that she was dreaming.Slowly she raised her face to his, unbelief and wonder in her
eyes,--unbelief and wonder and fright.But
when she met the quality of his look, the grave tenderness of it, she
trembled, and our rendered her own to the page where his handwriting
quivered and became a blur.He never knew the effort it cost her to rise and confront him.She
herself had not measured or fathomed the power which his very person
exhaled.He needed not to have
spoken for her to have felt that.She
knew alone that it was nigh irresistible, and she grasped the back of
the chair as though material support might sustain her."Not--not yet, They are waiting for the end."he asked in grave surprise, glancing at the door of the
Judge's room."I am waiting for my cousin," she said.Even as she spoke she was with this man again at the Brinsmade gate.Intuition told her that he, too, was
thinking of that time.Now he had found her at his desk, and, as if that
were not humiliation enough, with one of his books taken down and laid
open at his signature.Suffused, she groped for words to carry her on.He was here, and is gone
somewhere."He did not seem to take account of the speech.And his silence--goad
to indiscretion--pressed her to add:-- "You saved him, Mr.I--we
all--thank you so much.And that is not all I want to say.It is a poor
enough acknowledgment of what you did,--for we have not always treated
you well."Her voice faltered almost to faintness, as he raised his hand
in pained protest.But she continued: "I shall regard it as a debt I can
never repay.It is not likely that in my life to come I can ever help
you, but I shall pray for that opportunity.""I did nothing, Miss Carvel, nothing that the most unfeeling man in our
army would not do.Nothing that I would not have done for the merest
stranger.""You saved him for me," she said.She turned away from him for
very shame, and yet she heard him saying:-- "Yes, I saved him for you."His voice was in the very note of the sadness which has the strength
to suffer, to put aside the thought of self.A note to which her soul
responded with anguish when she turned to him with the natural cry of
woman."Oh, you ought not to have come here to-night."It does not matter much," he answered."I guessed it,--because my mother had left me.""Oh, you ought not to have come!""The Judge has been my benefactor," he answered quietly."I could walk,
and it was my duty to come."He smiled, "I had no carriage," he said.With the instinct of her sex she seized the chair and placed it under
him."You must sit down at once," she cried."But I am not tired," he replied."Oh, you must sit down, you must, Captain Brice."He started at the
title, which came so prettily from her lips, "Won't you please!"And, as the sun peeps out of a troubled sky, she smiled.He glanced at the book, and the bit of sky was crimson."It is your book," she stammered."I did not know that it was yours
when I took it down.I--I was looking at it while I was waiting for
Clarence.""It is dry reading," he remarked, which was not what he wished to say."And yet--"

"Yes?"The confession had slipped to her
lips.She was sitting on the edge of his desk, looking down at him.All the will that was left him averted his head.And the seal of honor was upon his speech.And he wondered if man were
ever more tempted.Then the evil spread its wings, and soared away into the night.Peace seemed to come upon them both, quieting the
tumult in their hearts, and giving them back their reason.Respect like
wise came to the girl,--respect that was akin to awe."My mother has me how faithfully you nursed the Judge, Miss Carvel.It
was a very noble thing to do.""Not noble at all," she replied hastily, "your mother did the most of
it, And he is an old friend of my father--"

"It was none the less noble," said Stephen, warmly, "And he quarrelled
with Colonel Carvel.""My father quarrelled with him," she corrected."It was well that I
should make some atonement.And yet mine was no atonement, I love Judge
Whipple.It was a--a privilege to see your mother every day--oh, how
he would talk of you!I think he loves you better than any one on this
earth.""Tell me about him," said Stephen, gently.Virginia told him, and into the narrative she threw the whole of her
pent-up self.How patient the Judge had been, and the joy he had derived
from Stephen's letters."You were very good to write to him so often,"
she said.It seemed like a dream to Stephen, like one of the many dreams
of her, the mystery of which was of the inner life beyond our ken.He
could not recall a time when she had not been rebellious, antagonistic.And now--as he listened to her voice, with its exquisite low tones and
modulations, as he sat there in this sacred intimacy, perchance to be
the last in his life, he became dazed.His eyes, softened, with supreme
eloquence cried out that she, was his, forever and forever.The magnetic
force which God uses to tie the worlds together was pulling him to her.Then the door swung open, and Clarence Colfax, out of breath, ran into
the room.He stopped short when he saw them, his hand fell to his sides,
and his words died on his lips.It was Stephen who rose to meet him, and with her eyes the girl followed
his motions.The broad and loosely built frame of the Northerner, his
shoulders slightly stooping, contrasted with Clarence's slighter figure,
erect, compact, springy.The Southerner's eye, for that moment, was
flint struck with the spark from the steel.Stephen's face, thinned by
illness, was grave.For an instant
they stood thus regarding each other, neither offering a hand.It was
Stephen who spoke first, and if there was a trace of emotion in his
voice, one who was listening intently failed to mark it."I am glad to see that you have recovered, Colonel Colfax," he said."I should indeed be without gratitude if I did not thank Captain Brice
for my life," answered Clarence.She had detected the
undue accent on her cousin's last words, and she glanced apprehensively
at Stephen."Miss Carvel has already thanked me sufficiently, sir," he said."I am
happy to have been able to have done you a good turn, and at the same
time to have served her so well.It is
to her your thanks are chiefly due.I believe that I am not going too
far, Colonel Colfax," he added, "when I congratulate you both."Before her cousin could recover, Virginia slid down from the desk and
had come between them.How her eyes shone and her lip trembled as she
gazed at him, Stephen has never forgotten.What a woman she was as she
took her cousin's arm and made him a curtsey."What you have done may seem a light thing to you, Captain Brice," she
said."That is apt to be the way with those who have big hearts.You
have put upon Colonel Colfax, and upon me, a life's obligation."When she began to speak, Clarence raised his head.As he glanced,
incredulous, from her to Stephen, his look gradually softened, and
when she had finished, his manner had become again frank, boyish,
impetuous--nay, penitent."Forgive me, Brice," he cried.I--I did you an injustice, and you, Virginia.I was a fool--a
scoundrel.""No, you were neither," he said.Then upon his face came the smile of
one who has the strength to renounce, all that is dearest to him--that
smile of the unselfish, sweetest of all.She was to see it once again, upon the features of one who bore a
cross,--Abraham Lincoln.Clarence looked, and then he turned away toward
the door to the stairway, as one who walks blindly, in a sorrow.His hand was on the knob when Virginia seemed to awake.She flew after
him:

"Wait!"Then she raised her eyes, slowly, to Stephen, who was standing
motionless beside his chair."My father is in the Judge's room," she said."I thought--"

"That he was an officer in the Confederate Army.She took
a step toward him, appealingly."Oh, he is not a spy," she cried."He has given Mr Brinsmade his word
that he came here for no other purpose than to see me.Then he heard
that the Judge was dying--"

"He has given his word to Mr."Then," said Stephen, "what Mr.Brinsmade sanctions is not for me to
question."She gave him yet another look, a fleeting one which he did not see.Then
she softly opened the door and passed into the room of the dying man.As for Clarence, he stood for a space staring
after them.Then he went noiselessly down the stairs into the street.LEAD, KINDLY LIGHT

When the Judge opened his eyes for the last time in this world, they
fell first upon the face of his old friend, Colonel Carvel.Twice he
tried to speak his name, and twice he failed.The third time he said it
faintly."Comyn, what are you doing here?"I reckon I came to see you, Silas," answered the Colonel."To see me die," said the Judge, grimly.Colonel Carvel's face twitched, and the silence in that little room
seemed to throb."Comyn," said the Judge again, "I heard that you had gone South to fight
against your country.Can it be that you have at last
returned in your allegiances to the flag for which your forefathers
died?"Poor Colonel Carvel

"I am still of the same mind, Silas," he said.The Judge turned his face away, his thin lips moving as in prayer.But
they knew that he was not praying, "Silas," said Mr.Carvel, "we were
friends for twenty years.Let us be friends again, before--"

"Before I die," the Judge interrupted, "I am ready to die.I have had a hard life, Comyn, and few friends.I--I did not know how to make them.Yet no man ever valued those few
more than!But," he cried, the stern fire unquenched to the last, "I
would that God had spared me to see this Rebellion stamped out.To those watching, his eyes seemed fixed on a
distant point, and the light of prophecy was in them."I would that
God had spared me to see this Union supreme once more.A high destiny is reserved for this nation--!I think the
highest of all on this earth."Amid profound silence he leaned back on
the pillows from which he had risen, his breath coming fast.None dared
look at the neighbor beside them."Would you not like to see a
clergyman, Judge?"The look on his face softened as he turned to her."No, madam," he answered; "you are clergyman enough for me.You are near
enough to God--there is no one in this room who is not worthy to stand
in the presence of death.Yet I wish that a clergyman were here, that
he might listen to one thing I have to say.When I was a boy I worked my
way down the river to New York, to see the city.He said to me, 'Sit down, my son, I want to talk to you.I said to him, 'No,
sir, I am not Senator Whipple's son.If the
bishop had wished to talk to me after that, Mrs.Brice, he might have
made my life a little easier--a little sweeter.I know that they are not
all like that.But it was by just such things that I was embittered when
I was a boy."He stopped, and when he spoke again, it was more slowly,
more gently, than any of them had heard him speak in all his life
before."I wish that some of the blessings which I am leaving now had
come to me then--when I was a boy.I might have done my little share in
making the world a brighter place to live in, as all of you have done.Yes, as all of you are now doing for me.I am leaving the world with a
better opinion of it than I ever held in life.God hid the sun from me
when I was a little child.Margaret Brice," he said, "if I had had such
a mother as you, I would have been softened then.I thank God that He
sent you when He did."The widow bowed her head, and a tear fell upon his pillow."I have done nothing," she murmured, "nothing.""So shall they answer at the last whom He has chosen," said the Judge."I was sick, and ye visited me.He has promised to remember those who do
that.He has
given you a son whom all men may look in the face, of whom you need
never be ashamed.Stephen," said the Judge, "come here."Stephen made his way to the bedside, but because of the moisture in his
eyes he saw but dimly the gaunt face.And yet he shrank back in awe at
the change in it.So must all of the martyrs have looked when the
fire of the <DW19>s licked their feet.So must John Bunyan have stared
through his prison bars at the sky."Stephen," he said, "you have been faithful in a few things.So shall
you be made ruler over many things.The little I have I leave to you,
and the chief of this is an untarnished name.I know that you will be
true to it because I have tried your strength.Listen carefully to what
I have to say, for I have thought over it long.In the days gone by our
fathers worked for the good of the people, and they had no thought of
gain.A time is coming when we shall need that blood and that bone in
this Republic.Wealth not yet dreamed of will flow out of this land, and
the waters of it will rot all save the pure, and corrupt all save the
incorruptible.Half-tried men wilt go down before that flood.You and
those like you will remember how your fathers governed,--strongly,
sternly, justly.Serve your city, serve your state, but above all serve
your country."He paused to catch his breath, which was coming painfully now, and
reached out his bony hand to seek Stephen's."I was harsh with you at
first, my son," he went on.And when I had tried
you I wished your mind to open, to keep pace with the growth of this
nation.I sent you to see Abraham Lincoln that you might be born
again--in the West.I saw it when you came back--I
saw it in your face.O God," he cried, with sudden eloquence."I would
that his hands--Abraham Lincoln's hands--might be laid upon all who
complain and cavil and criticise, and think of the little things in
life: I would that his spirit might possess their spirit!"They marvelled and were awed, for never in all his
days had such speech broken from this man."Good-by, Stephen," he said,
when they thought he was not to speak again."Hold the image of Abraham
Lincoln in front of you.You--you are a man after his
own heart--and--and mine."They started for ward, for his eyes
were closed.But presently he stirred again, and opened them."Brinsmade," he said, "Brinsmade, take care of my orphan girls.The <DW64> came forth, shuffling and sobbing, from the doorway."You ain't gwine away, Marse Judge?""Yes, Shadrach, good-by.You have served me well, I have left you
provided for."Shadrach kissed the hand of whose secret charity he knew so much.Then
the Judge withdrew it, and motioned to him to rise.And Colonel Carvel came from the corner where he had
been listening, with his face drawn.You were my friend when there was none other.You were
true to me when the hand of every man was against me.You--you have
risked your life to come to me here, May God spare it for Virginia."At the sound of her name, the girl started.And when she kissed him on the forehead, he trembled.Weakly he reached up and put his hands on her shoulders.The tears came and lay wet upon her lashes as she undid the
button at his throat.There, on a piece of cotton twine, hung a little key, She took it off,
but still his hands held her."I have saved it for you, my dear," he said."God bless you--" why did
his eyes seek Stephen's?--"and make your life happy.Virginia--will you
play my hymn--once more--once more?"They lifted the night lamp from the piano, and the medicine.It was
Stephen who stripped it of the black cloth it had worn, who stood by
Virginia ready to lift the lid when she had turned the lock.The girl's
exaltation gave a trembling touch divine to the well-remembered chords,
and those who heard were lifted, lifted far above and beyond the power
of earthly spell."Lead, Kindly Light, amid the encircling gloom
        Lead Thou me on
        The night is dark, and I am far from home;
        Lead Thou me on.I do not ask to see
        The distant scene; one step enough for me."A sigh shook Silas Whipple's wasted frame, and he died.Brinsmade and the Doctor were the first to leave the little room
where Silas Whipple had lived and worked and died, Mr.Brinsmade bent
upon one of those errands which claimed him at all times.Virginia sat on, a vague fear haunting her,--a fear
for her father's safety.These questions, at first intruding upon her sorrow,
remained to torture her.Softly she stirred from the chair where she had sat before the piano,
and opened the door of the outer office.A clock in a steeple near by
was striking twelve.Only Stephen
saw her go; she felt his eyes following her, and as she slipped out
lifted hers to meet them for a brief instant through the opening of the
door.First of all she knew that the light in the outer office was burning
dimly, and the discovery gave her a shock.Fearfully searching the room for him, her gaze
was held by a figure in the recess of the window at the back of the
room.A solid, bulky figure it was, and, though uncertainly outlined
in the semi-darkness, she knew it.She took a step nearer, and a cry
escaped her.The man was Eliphalet Hopper.He got down from the sill with a motion
at once sheepish and stealthy.Her breath caught, and instinctively she
gave back toward the door, as if to open it again."I've got something I want to say to you, Miss
Virginia."But she
shivered and paused, horrified at the thought of what she was about to
do.Her father was in that room--and Stephen.She must keep them there,
and get this man away.She must not show fright before him, and yet she
could not trust her voice to speak just then.She must not let him know
that she was afraid of him--this she kept repeating to herself.Virginia never knew how she gathered the courage to pass him, even
swiftly, and turn up the gas.He started back, blinking as the
jet flared.For a moment she stood beside it, with her head high;
confronting him and striving to steady herself for speech."Judge Whipple--died--to-night."The dominating note in his answer was a whine, as if, in spite of
himself, he were awed."I ain't here to see the Judge."She felt her
lips moving, but knew not whether the words had come.The look in his little eyes was the filmy look of
those of an animal feasting."I came here to see you," he said, "--you."She was staring at him now,
in horror."And if you don't give me what I want, I cal'late to see some
one else--in there," said Mr.He smiled, for she was swaying, her lids half closed.By a supreme
effort she conquered her terror and looked at him.The look was in his
eyes still, intensified now."How dare you speak to me after what has happened!If Colonel
Carvel were here, he would--kill you."He flinched at the name and the word, involuntarily.He wiped his
forehead, hot at the very thought.Then,
remembering his advantage, he stepped close to her."He is here," he said, intense now."He is here, in that there room."Virginia struggled, and yet she refrained from crying
out."He never leaves this city without I choose.I can have him hung if
I choose," he whispered, next to her.she cried; "oh, if you choose!"Still his body crept closer, and his face closer."There's but one price to pay," he said hoarsely, "there's but one price
to pay, and that's you--you.I cal'late you'll marry me now."Delirious at the touch of her, he did not hear the door open.Her senses
were strained for that very sound.She heard it close again, and a
footstep across the room.She knew the step--she knew the voice, and her
heart leaped at the sound of it in anger.An arm in a blue sleeve came
between them, and Eliphalet Hopper staggered and fell across the books
on the table, his hand to his face.Towered was the impression that came to Virginia then, and so she
thought of the scene ever afterward.Small bits, like points of tempered
steel, glittered in Stephen's eyes, and his hands following up the
mastery he had given them clutched Mr.Twice Stephen
shook him so that his head beat upon the table.he cried, but he kept his voice low.And then, as if
he expected Hopper to reply: "Shall I kill you?"He turned slowly, and his hands fell from
Mr.Hopper's cowering form as his eyes met hers.Even he could not
fathom the appeal, the yearning, in their dark blue depths.And yet what
he saw there made him tremble."He--he won't touch me again while you
are here."Eliphalet Hopper raised himself from the desk, and one of the big books
fell with a crash to the floor.Then they saw him shrink, his eyes fixed
upon some one behind them.Before the Judge's door stood Colonel Carvel,
in calm, familiar posture, his feet apart, and his head bent forward as
he pulled at his goatee."What is this man doing here, Virginia?"She did not answer
him, nor did speech seem to come easily to Mr.Perhaps the sight of Colonel Carvel had brought before him too, vividly
the memory of that afternoon at Glencoe.All at once Virginia grasped the fulness of the power in this man's
hands.At a word from him her father would be shot as a spy--and Stephen
Brice, perhaps, as a traitor.But if Colonel Carvel should learn that he
had seized her,--here was the terrible danger of the situation.Well she
knew what the Colonel would do.She trusted in
his coolness that he would not.Before a word of reply came from any of the three, a noise was heard
on the stairway.There followed four seconds
of suspense, and then Clarence came in.She saw that his face wore a
worried, dejected look.It changed instantly when he glanced about
him, and an oath broke from his lips as he singled out Eliphalet Hopper
standing in sullen aggressiveness, beside the table."So you're the spy, are you?"Then he turned his
back and faced his uncle."I saw, him in Williams's entry as we drove
up.He strode to the open window at the back
of the office, and looked out, There was a roof under it."The sneak got in here," he said."He knew I was waiting for him in the
street.Hopper passed a heavy hand across the cheek where Stephen had struck
him."No, I ain't the spy," he said, with a meaning glance at the Colonel."I cal'late that he knows," Eliphalet replied, jerking his head toward
Colonel Carvel.What's to prevent my
calling up the provost's guard below?"he continued, with a smile that
was hideous on his swelling face.It was the Colonel who answered him, very quickly and very clearly.Stephen, who was watching him, could not tell
whether it were a grim smile that creased the corners of the Colonel's
mouth as he added.Hopper did not move, but his eyes shifted to Virginia's form.Stephen deliberately thrust himself between them that he might not see
her.said the Colonel, in the mild voice that
should have been an ominous warning.It
was clear that he had not reckoned upon all of this; that he had waited
in the window to deal with Virginia alone.But now the very force of a
desire which had gathered strength in many years made him reckless.His
voice took on the oily quality in which he was wont to bargain."Let's be calm about this business, Colonel," he said."We won't say
anything about the past.But I ain't set on having you shot.There's a
consideration that would stop me, and I cal'late you know what it is."But before he had taken a step Virginia
had crossed the room swiftly, and flung herself upon him.The last word came falteringly,
faintly."Let me go,--honey," whispered the Colonel, gently.His eyes did not
leave Eliphalet.He tried to disengage himself, but her fingers were
clasped about his neck in a passion of fear and love.And then, while
she clung to him, her head was raised to listen.The sound of Stephen
Brice's voice held her as in a spell.His words were coming coldly,
deliberately, and yet so sharply that each seemed to fall like a lash.Hopper, if ever I hear of your repeating what you have seen or
heard in this room, I will make this city and this state too hot for
you to live in.I know how you hide in areas, how you talk
sedition in private, how you have made money out of other men's misery.And, what is more, I can prove that you have had traitorous dealings
with the Confederacy.General Sherman has been good enough to call
himself a friend of mine, and if he prosecutes you for your dealings
in Memphis, you will get a term in a Government prison, You ought to be
hung.Colonel Carvel has shown you the door.FROM THE LETTERS OF MAJOR STEPHEN BRICE

Of the Staff of General Sherman on the March to the Sea, and on the
March from Savannah Northward.HEADQUARTERS MILITARY DIVISION OF THE MISSISSIPPI GOLDSBORO, N.C.MARCH
24, 1865

DEAR MOTHER: The South Carolina Campaign is a thing of the past.I pause
as I write these words--they seem so incredible to me.We have marched
the four hundred and twenty-five miles in fifty days, and the General
himself has said that it is the longest and most important march ever
made by an organized army in a civilized country.I know that you will
not be misled by the words "civilized country."Not until the history of
this campaign is written will the public realize the wide rivers and
all but impassable swamps we have crossed with our baggage trains and
artillery.The roads (by courtesy so called) were a sea of molasses and
every mile of them has had to be corduroyed.For fear of worrying you I
did not write you from Savannah how they laughed at us for starting at
that season of the year.They said we would not go ten miles, and I most
solemnly believe that no one but "Uncle Billy" and an army organized and
equipped by him could have gone ten miles.You have probably remarked in the tone of my letters ever since we left
Kingston for the sea, a growing admiration for "my General."It seems very strange that this wonderful tactician can be the same man
I met that day going to the Arsenal in the streetcar, and again at Camp
Jackson.I am sure that history will give him a high place among the
commanders of the world.Certainly none was ever more tireless than
he.He never fights a battle when it can be avoided, and his march into
Columbia while threatening Charleston and Augusta was certainly a master
stroke of strategy.You should see him as
he rides through the army, an erect figure, with his clothes all angular
and awry, and an expanse of white sock showing above his low shoes.You can hear his name running from file to file; and some times the
new regiments can't resist cheering.He generally says to the
Colonel:--"Stop that noise, sir.On our march to the sea, if the orders were ever given to turn
northward, "the boys" would get very much depressed.One moonlight night
I was walking my horse close to the General's over the pine needles,
when we overheard this conversation between two soldiers:-- "Say, John,"
said one, "I guess Uncle Billy don't know our corps is goin' north.""I wonder if he does,'" said John."If I could only get a sight of them
white socks, I'd know it was all right."The General rode past without a word, but I heard him telling the story
to Mower the next day.I can find little if any change in his manner since I knew him first.He is brusque, but kindly, and he has the same comradeship with officers
and men--and even the <DW64>s who flock to our army.But few dare to
take advantage of it, and they never do so twice.I have been very near
to him, and have tried not to worry him or ask many foolish questions.Sometimes on the march he will beckon me to close up to him, and we have
a conversation something on this order:-- "There's Kenesaw, Brice.""Went beyond lines there with small party.Next day I thought Rebels would leave in the night.Got up before daylight, fixed telescope on stand, and waited.Saw one blue man creep up, very cautious,
looked around, waved his hat.This gives you but a faint idea of the vividness of his talk.When we
make a halt for any time, the general officers and their staffs flock
to headquarters to listen to his stories.When anything goes wrong, his
perception of it is like a lightning flash,--and he acts as quickly.By the way, I have just found the letter he wrote me, offering this
staff position.Please keep it carefully, as it is something I shall
value all my life.GAYLESVILLE, ALABAMA, October 25, 1864.MAJOR STEPHEN A. BRICE:

   Dear Sir,--The world goes on, and wicked men sound asleep.Davis
   has sworn to destroy my army, and Beauregard has come to do the
   work,--so if you expect to share in our calamity, come down.I
   offer you this last chance for staff duty, and hope you have had
   enough in the field.I do not wish to hurry you, but you can't get
   aboard a ship at sea.So if you want to make the trip, come to
   Chattanooga and take your chances of meeting me.Yours truly,

                  W. T. SHERMAN, Major General.One night--at Cheraw, I think it was--he sent for me to talk to him.I
found him lying on a bed of Spanish moss they had made for him.He asked
me a great many questions about St.Brinsmade,
especially his management of the Sanitary Commission."Brice," he said, after a while, "you remember when Grant sent me to
beat off Joe Johnston's army from Vicksburg.You were wounded then, by
the way, in that dash Lauman made.Grant thought he ought to warn me
against Johnston."'He's wily, Sherman,' said he."'Grant,' said I, 'you give me men enough and time enough to look over
the ground, and I'm not afraid of the devil.'"Nothing could sum up the man better than that.And now what a trick of
fate it is that he has Johnston before him again, in what we hope will
prove the last gasp of the war!He likes Johnston, by the way, and has
the greatest respect for him.I wish you could have peeped into our camp once in a while.In the rare
bursts of sunshine on this march our premises have been decorated with
gay red blankets, and sombre gray ones brought from the quartermasters,
and white Hudson's Bay blankets (not so white now), all being between
forked sticks.It is wonderful how the pitching of a few tents, and the
busy crackle of a few fires, and the sound of voices--sometimes merry,
sometimes sad, depending on the weather, will change the look of a
lonely pine knoll.I should be heartily ashamed
if a word of complaint ever fell from my lips.Whenever I
wake up at night with my feet in a puddle between the blankets, I think
of the men.The corduroy roads which our horses stumble over through the
mud, they make as well as march on.Our flies are carried in wagons,
and our utensils and provisions.They must often bear on their backs the
little dog-tents, under which, put up by their own labor, they crawl
to sleep, wrapped in a blanket they have carried all day, perhaps waist
deep in water.The food they eat has been in their haversacks for many a
weary mile, and is cooked in the little skillet and pot which have
also been a part of their burden.Then they have their musket and
accoutrements, and the "forty rounds" at their backs.Patiently,
cheerily tramping along, going they know not where, nor care much
either, so it be not in retreat.Ready to make roads, throw up works,
tear up railroads, or hew out and build wooden bridges; or, best of all,
to go for the Johnnies under hot sun or heavy rain, through swamp and
mire and quicksand.They marched ten miles to storm Fort McAllister.And
how the cheers broke from them when the pop pop pop of the skirmish line
began after we came in sight of Savannah!No man who has seen but not
shared their life may talk of personal hardship.We arrived at this pretty little town yesterday, so effecting a junction
with Schofield, who got in with the 3d Corps the day before.I am
writing at General Schofield's headquarters.There was a bit of a battle
on Tuesday at Bentonville, and we have come hither in smoke, as usual.But this time we thank Heaven that it is not the smoke of burning
homes,--only some resin the "Johnnies" set on fire before they left.ON BOARD DESPATCH BOAT "MARTIN."DEAR MOTHER: A most curious thing has happened.But I may as well begin
at the beginning.When I stopped writing last evening at the summons
of the General, I was about to tell you something of the battle of
Bentonville on Tuesday last.Mower charged through as bad a piece
of wood and swamp as I ever saw, and got within one hundred yards of
Johnston himself, who was at the bridge across Mill Creek.Of course we
did not know this at the time, and learned it from prisoners.As I have written you, I have been under fire very little since coming
to the staff.When the battle opened, however, I saw that if I stayed
with the General (who was then behind the reserves) I would see little
or nothing; I went ahead "to get information" beyond the line of battle
into the woods.I did not find these favorable to landscape views, and
just as I was turning my horse back again I caught sight of a commotion
some distance to my right.The Rebel skirmish line had fallen back just
that instant, two of our skirmishers were grappling with a third man,
who was fighting desperately.It struck me as singular that the fellow
was not in gray, but had on some sort of dark clothes.I could not reach them in the swamp on horseback, and was in the act of
dismounting when the man fell, and then they set out to carry him to the
rear, still farther to my right, beyond the swamp.I shouted, and one of
the skirmishers came up."We've got a spy, sir," he said excitedly.He was hid in the thicket yonder, lying flat on his face.He reckoned that our boys would run right over him and that he'd get
into our lines that way.Tim Foley stumbled on him, and he put up as
good a fight with his fists as any man I ever saw."That night I told the General, who
sent over to the headquarters of the 17th Corps to inquire.The word
came back that the man's name was Addison, and he claimed to be a Union
sympathizer who owned a plantation near by.He declared that he had been
conscripted by the Rebels, wounded, sent back home, and was now about to
be pressed in again.He had taken this method of escaping to our lines.It was a common story enough, but General Mower added in his message
that he thought the story fishy.This was because the man's appearance
was very striking, and he seemed the type of Confederate fighter who
would do and dare anything.He had a wound, which had been a bad one,
evidently got from a piece of shell.But they had been able to find
nothing on him.Sherman sent back word to keep the man until he could
see him in person.It was about nine o'clock last night when I reached
the house the General has taken.A prisoner's guard was resting outside,
and the hall was full of officers.They said that the General was
awaiting me, and pointed to the closed door of a room that had been the
dining room.Two candles were burning in pewter sticks on the bare mahogany table.There was the General sitting beside them, with his legs crossed,
holding some crumpled tissue paper very near his eyes, and reading.He
did not look up when I entered.I was aware of a man standing, tall and
straight, just out of range of the candles' rays.He wore the easy dress
of a Southern planter, with the broad felt hat.The head was flung back
so that there was just a patch of light on the chin, and the lids of the
eyes in the shadow were half closed.For the moment I felt precisely as I
had when I was hit by that bullet in Lauman's charge.I was aware of
something very like pain, yet I could not place the cause of it.But
this is what since has made me feel queer: you doubtless remember
staying at Hollingdean, when I was a boy, and hearing the story of Lord
Northwell's daredevil Royalist ancestor,--the one with the lace collar
over the dull-gold velvet, and the pointed chin, and the lazy scorn in
the eyes.Those eyes are painted with drooping lids.The first time I
saw Clarence Colfax I thought of that picture--and now I thought of the
picture first."Major Brice, do you know this gentleman?""His name is Colfax, sir--Colonel Colfax, I think"

"Thought so," said the General.I have thought much of that scene since, as I am steaming northward over
green seas and under cloudless skies, and it has seemed very unreal.I
should almost say supernatural when I reflect how I have run across this
man again and again, and always opposing him.I can recall just how he
looked at the slave auction, which seem, so long ago: very handsome,
very boyish, and yet with the air of one to be deferred to.It was
sufficiently remarkable that I should have found him in Vicksburg.But
now--to be brought face to face with him in this old dining room in
Goldsboro!I did not know how he
would act, but I went up to him and held out my hand, and said.--"How do
you do, Colonel Colfax?"I am sure that my voice was not very steady, for I cannot help liking
him And then his face lighted up and he gave me his hand.And he smiled
at me and again at the General, as much as to say that it was all over."We seem to run into each other, Major Brice," said he.I could see that the General, too,
was moved, from the way he looked at him.And he speaks a little more
abruptly at such times."Guess that settles it, Colonel," he said."I reckon it does, General," said Clarence, still smiling.The General
turned from him to the table with a kind of jerk and clapped his hand on
the tissue paper."These speak for themselves, sir," he said."It is very plain that they
would have reached the prominent citizens for whom they were intended if
you had succeeded in your enterprise.You were captured out of uniform
You know enough of war to appreciate the risk you ran."Call Captain Vaughan, Brice, and ask him to conduct the prisoner back."I asked him if I could write home for him or do anything else.Some day I shall tell you what he said.Then Vaughan took him out, and I heard the guard shoulder arms and tramp
away in the night.The General and I were left alone with the mahogany
table between us, and a family portrait of somebody looking down on
us from the shadow on the wall.A moist spring air came in at the open
windows, and the candles flickered.After a silence, I ventured to say:

"I hope he won't be shot, General.""Don't know, Brice," he answered.Hate to shoot him,
but war is war.Magnificent class he belongs to--pity we should have to
fight those fellows."He paused, and drummed on the table."Brice," said he, "I'm going to
send you to General Grant at City Point with despatches.I'm sorry Dunn
went back yesterday, but it can't be helped."You'll have to ride to Kinston.The railroad won't be through until
to-morrow: I'll telegraph there, and to General Easton at Morehead City.Tell Grant I expect to run up there in a
day or two myself, when things are arranged here.I turned to go, but Clarence Colfax was on my mind "General?""General, could you hold Colonel Colfax until I see you again?"It was a bold thing to say, and I quaked.And he looked at me in his
keen way, through and through "You saved his life once before, didn't
you?""You allowed me to have him sent home from Vicksburg, sir."He answered with one of his jokes--apropos of something he said on the
Court House steps at Vicksburg."Well, well," he said, "I'll see, I'll see.Thank God this war is pretty
near over.I'll let you know, Brice, before I shoot him."I rode the thirty odd miles to Kinston in--little more than three hours.A locomotive was waiting for me, and I jumped into a cab with a friendly
engineer.Soon we were roaring seaward through the vast pine forests.It was a lonely journey, and you were much in my mind.My greatest
apprehension was that we might be derailed and the despatches captured;
for as fast as our army had advanced, the track of it had closed again,
like the wake of a ship at sea.Guerillas were roving about, tearing up
ties and destroying bridges.There was one five-minute interval of excitement when, far down the
tunnel through the forest, we saw a light gleaming.The engineer said
there was no house there, that it must be a fire.But we did not slacken
our speed, and gradually the leaping flames grew larger and redder until
we were upon them.Not one gaunt figure stood between them and us.Not one shot broke the
stillness of the night.As dawn broke I beheld the flat, gray waters of
the Sound stretching away to the eastward, and there was the boat at the
desolate wharf beside the warehouse, her steam rising white in the chill
morning air.THE SAME, CONTINUED

             HEADQUARTERS ARMIES OF THE UNITED STATES,
              CITY POINT, VIRGINIA, March 28, 1865.DEAR MOTHER: I arrived here safely the day before yesterday, and I hope
that you will soon receive some of the letters I forwarded on that day.It is an extraordinary place, this City Point; a military city sprung up
like a mushroom in a winter.And my breath was quite taken away when I
first caught sight of it on the high table-land.The great bay in front
of it, which the Appomattox helps to make, is a maze of rigging and
smoke-pipes, like the harbor of a prosperous seaport.There are gunboats
and supply boats, schooners and square-riggers and steamers, all huddled
together, and our captain pointed out to me the 'Malvern' flying Admiral
Porter's flag.Barges were tied up at the long wharves, and these were
piled high with wares and flanked by squat warehouses.Although it
was Sunday, a locomotive was puffing and panting along the foot of the
ragged bank.High above, on the flat promontory between the two rivers, is the city
of tents and wooden huts, the great trees in their fresh faint green
towering above the low roofs.At the point of the bluff a large flag
drooped against its staff, and I did not have to be told that this was
General Grant's headquarters.There was a fine steamboat lying at the wharf, and I had hardly stepped
ashore before they told me she was President Lincoln's.I read the name
on her--the 'River Queen'.Yes, the President is here, too, with his
wife and family.There are many fellows here with whom I was brought up in Boston.I am
living with Jack Hancock, whom you will remember well.He is a captain
now, and has a beard.I went straight to General Grant's
headquarters,--just a plain, rough slat house such as a contractor might
build for a temporary residence.Only the high flagstaff and the Stars
and Stripes distinguish it from many others of the same kind.A group of
officers stood chatting outside of it, and they told me that the General
had walked over to get his mail.He is just as unassuming and democratic
as "my general."General Rankin took me into the office, a rude room,
and we sat down at the long table there.Presently the door opened,
and a man came in with a slouch hat on and his coat unbuttoned.We rose to our feet, and I saluted."General, this is Major Brice of General Sherman's staff.He has brought
despatches from Goldsboro," said Rankin.He nodded, took off his hat and laid it on the table, and reached out
for the despatches.While reading them he did not move, except to light
another cigar.I am getting hardened to unrealities,--perhaps I should
say marvels, now.It did not seem so
strange that this silent General with the baggy trousers was the man who
had risen by leaps and bounds in four years to be general-in-chief of
our armies.His face looks older and more sunken than it did on that
day in the street near the Arsenal, in St.Louis, when he was just a
military carpet-bagger out of a job.But
how different the impressions made by the man in authority and the same
man out of authority!He made a sufficient impression upon me then, as I told you at the time.That was because I overheard his well-merited rebuke to Hopper.But I
little dreamed that I was looking on the man who was to come out of the
West and save this country from disunion.And how quietly and simply he
has done it, without parade or pomp or vainglory.Of all those who, with
every means at their disposal, have tried to conquer Lee, he is the
only one who has in any manner succeeded.He has been able to hold him
fettered while Sherman has swept the Confederacy.And these are the two
men who were unknown when the war began.When the General had finished reading the despatches, he folded them
quickly and put them in his pocket."Sit down and tell me about this last campaign of yours, Major," he
said.I talked with him for about half an hour.He is a marked contrast to Sherman in this respect.I believe that
he only opened his lips to ask two questions.You may well believe that
they were worth the asking, and they revealed an intimate knowledge of
our march from Savannah.I was interrupted many times by the arrival
of different generals, aides, etc.He sat there smoking, imperturbable.Sometimes he said "yes" or "no," but oftener he merely nodded his head.Once he astounded by a brief question an excitable young lieutenant, who
floundered.The General seemed to know more than he about the matter he
had in hand.When I left him, he asked me where I was quartered, and said he hoped I
would be comfortable.Jack Hancock was waiting for me, and we walked around the city, which
even has barber shops.Everywhere were signs of preparation, for the
roads are getting dry, and the General preparing for a final campaign
against Lee.What a marvellous fight he has made with his
material.I think that he will be reckoned among the greatest generals
of our race.Of course, I was very anxious to get a glimpse of the President, and
so we went down to the wharf, where we heard that he had gone off for
a horseback ride.They say that he rides nearly every day, over the
corduroy roads and through the swamps, and wherever the boys see that
tall hat they cheer.They know it as well as the lookout tower on the
flats of Bermuda Hundred.He lingers at the campfires and swaps stories
with the officers, and entertains the sick and wounded in the hospitals.I believe that the great men don't change.Away with your Napoleons and your Marlboroughs and your Stuarts.These
are the days of simple men who command by force of character, as well as
knowledge.I believe that he will change the
world, and strip it of its vainglory and hypocrisy.In the evening, as we were sitting around Hancock's fire, an officer
came in."The President sends his compliments, Major, and wants to know if you
would care to pay him a little visit."If I would care to pay him a little visit!That officer had to hurry to
keep up with the as I walked to the wharf.He led me aboard the River
Queen, and stopped at the door of the after-cabin.Lincoln was sitting under the lamp, slouched down in his chair,
in the position I remembered so well.It was as if I had left him but
yesterday.He was whittling, and he had made some little toy for his son
Tad, who ran out as I entered.When he saw me, the President rose to his great height, a sombre,
towering figure in black.But the sad
smile, the kindly eyes in their dark caverns, the voice--all were just
the same.It was sad and lined
when I had known it, but now all the agony endured by the millions,
North and South, seemed written on it.I took his big, bony hand,
which reminded me of Judge Whipple's.Yes, it was just as if I had been
with him always, and he were still the gaunt country lawyer."Yes, sir," I said, "indeed I do."He looked at me with that queer expression of mirth he sometimes has.I didn't
think that any man could travel so close to Sherman and keep 'em.""They're unfortunate ways, sir," I said, "if they lead you to misjudge
me."He laid his hand on my shoulder, just as he had done at Freeport."I know you, Steve," he said."I shuck an ear of corn before I buy it.I've kept tab on you a little the last five years, and when I heard
Sherman had sent a Major Brice up here, I sent for you.""I tried very hard to get a glimpse of you
to-day, Mr."I'm glad to hear it, Steve," he said."Then you haven't joined the
ranks of the grumblers?You haven't been one of those who would have
liked to try running this country for a day or two, just to show me how
to do it?""No, sir," I said, laughing."I didn't think you were that kind,
Steve.Now sit down and tell me about this General of mine who wears
seven-leagued boots.What was it--four hundred and twenty miles in fifty
days?How many navigable rivers did he step across?"He began to count
on those long fingers of his."The Edisto, the Broad, the Catawba, the
Pedee, and--?""Is--is the General a nice man?""Yes, sir, he is that," I answered heartily."And not a man in the
army wants anything when he is around.You should see that Army of the
Mississippi, sir.They arrived in Goldsboro' in splendid condition."He got up and gathered his coat-tails under his arms, and began to walk
up and down the cabin.And, thinking the story of the white socks
might amuse him, I told him that."Well, now," he said, "any man that has a nickname like that is all
right.That's the best recommendation you can give the General--just
say 'Uncle Billy.'""You've given 'Uncle
Billy' a good recommendation, Steve," he said."Did you ever hear the
story of Mr."Well, when Wallace was hiring his gardener he asked him whom he had
been living with."'A ricommindation is it, sorr?Sure I have nothing agin Misther
Dalton, though he moightn't be knowing just the respict the likes of a
first-class garthener is entitled to.'"He seldom does, it seems, at his own stories.But
I could not help laughing over the "ricommindation" I had given the
General.He knew that I was embarrassed, and said kindly:-- "Now tell
me something about 'Uncle Billy's <DW15>s.'I hear that they have a most
effectual way of tearing up railroads."I told him of Poe's contrivance of the hook and chain, and how the
heaviest rails were easily overturned with it, and how the ties were
piled and fired and the rails twisted out of shape.The President
listened to every word with intense interest.he exclaimed, "we have got a general.Caesar burnt his
bridges behind him, but Sherman burns his rails.Then I began to tell him how
the <DW64>s had flocked into our camps, and how simply and plainly the
General had talked to them, advising them against violence of any kind,
and explaining to them that "Freedom" meant only the liberty to earn
their own living in their own way, and not freedom from work."We have got a general, sure enough," he cried."He talks to them
plainly, does he, so that they understand?I say to you, Brice," he went
on earnestly, "the importance of plain talk can't be overestimated.Any
thought, however abstruse, can be put in speech that a boy or a
<DW64> can grasp.Any book, however deep, can be written in terms that
everybody can comprehend, if a man only tries hard enough.When I was a
boy I used to hear the neighbors talking, and it bothered me so because
I could not understand them that I used to sit up half the night
thinking things out for myself.I remember that I did not know what the
word demonstrate meant.So I stopped my studies then and there and got a
volume of Euclid.Before I got through I could demonstrate everything in
it, and I have never been bothered with demonstrate since."I thought of those wonderfully limpid speeches of his: of the Freeport
debates, and of the contrast between his style and Douglas's.And I
understood the reason for it at last.I understood the supreme mind that
had conceived the Freeport Question.And as I stood before him then, at
the close of this fearful war, the words of the Gospel were in my mind.'So the last shall be first, and the first, last; for many be called,
but few chosen.'How I wished that all those who have maligned and tortured him could
talk with him as I had talked with him.To know his great heart would
disarm them of all antagonism.They would feel, as I feel, that his life
is so much nobler than theirs, and his burdens so much heavier, that
they would go away ashamed of their criticism.He said to me once, "Brice, I hope we are in sight of the end, now.I
hope that we may get through without any more fighting.I don't want to
see any more of our countrymen killed.And then," he said, as if talking
to himself, "and then we must show them mercy--mercy."I thought it a good time to mention Colfax's case.He has been on my
mind ever since.Once he sighed, and
he was winding his long fingers around each other while I talked.Lincoln," I concluded, "And if a
technicality will help him out, he was actually within his own skirmish
line at the time.The Rebel skirmishers had not fallen back on each side
of him.""Brice," he said, with that sorrowful smile, "a technicality might save
Colfax, but it won't save me.And I went on to tell of what he had done at Vicksburg, leaving
out, however, my instrumentality in having him sent north.(That seems to be a favorite expression of
his.)If it wasn't for them, the
South would have quit long ago."Then he looked at me in his funny way,
and said, "See here, Steve, if this Colfax isn't exactly a friend of
yours, there must be some reason why you are pleading for him in this
way.""Well, sir," I said, at length, "I should like to get him off on account
of his cousin, Miss Virginia Carvel.And I told him something about
Miss Carvel, and how she had helped you with the Union sergeant that day
in the hot hospital.And how she had nursed Judge Whipple.""She's a fine woman," he said."Those women have helped those men to
prolong this war about three years.""And yet we must save them for the nation's sake.They are to be the
mothers of our patriots in days to come.Is she a friend of yours, too,
Steve?""Not especially, sir," I answered finally."I have had to offend her
rather often.he cried, jumping up, "she's a daughter of Colonel Carvel.I
always had an admiration for that man.An ideal Southern gentleman of
the old school,--courteous, as honorable and open as the day, and as
brave as a lion.You've heard the story of how he threw a man named
Babcock out of his store, who tried to bribe him?""I heard you tell it in that tavern, sir.It
did me good to hear the Colonel praised."I always liked that story," he said."By the way, what's become of the
Colonel?""He got away--South, sir," I answered.He hasn't
been heard of since the summer of '63.And so
you want me to pardon this Colfax?""It would be presumptuous in me to go that far, sir," I replied."But I
hoped you might speak of it to the General when he comes.And I would be
glad of the opportunity to testify."He took a few strides up and down the room."Well, well," he said, "that's my vice--pardoning, saying yes.It's
always one more drink with me.It--" he smiled--"it makes me sleep
better.I've pardoned enough Rebels to populate New Orleans.Why," he
continued, with his whimsical look, "just before I left Washington, in
comes one of your Missouri senators with a list of Rebels who are shut
up in McDowell's and Alton.I said:-- "'Senator, you're not going to ask
me to turn loose all those at once?'"He said just what you said when you were speaking of Missouri a while
ago, that he was afraid of guerilla warfare, and that the war was nearly
over.And then what does he do but pull out another batch
longer than the first!you don't want me to turn these loose, too?'I think it will pay to be merciful.'"'Then durned if I don't,' I said, and I signed 'em."STEAMER "RIVER QUEEN."ON THE POTOMAC, April 9, 1865.DEAR MOTHER: I am glad that the telegrams I have been able to send
reached you safely.I have not had time to write, and this will be but a
short letter.I am on the President's boat,
in the President's party, bound with him for Washington.And this is how
it happened: The very afternoon of the day I wrote you, General Sherman
himself arrived at City Point on the steamer 'Russia'.I heard the
salutes, and was on the wharf to meet him.That same afternoon he and
General Grant and Admiral Porter went aboard the River Queen to see
the President.How I should have liked to be present at that interview!After it was over they all came out of the cabin together General Grant
silent, and smoking, as usual; General Sherman talking vivaciously;
and Lincoln and the Admiral smiling and listening.I shall never expect to see such a sight again in all my days.You
can imagine my surprise when the President called me from where I was
standing at some distance with the other officers.He put his hand on my
shoulder then and there, and turned to General Sherman."Major Brice is a friend of mine, General," he said."He never told me that," said the General."I guess he's got a great many important things shut up inside of him,"
said Mr."But he gave you a good recommendation,
Sherman.He said that you wore white socks, and that the boys liked
you and called you 'Uncle Billy.'And I told him that was the best
recommendation he could give anybody."But the General only looked at me with those eyes that
go through everything, and then he laughed."Brice," he said, "You'll have my reputation ruined."Lincoln, "you don't want the Major right away, do
you?Let him stay around here for a while with me.He looked at the general-in-chief, who was smiling just
a little bit."I've got a sneaking notion that Grant's going to do
something."Lincoln," said my General, "you may have Brice.Be
careful he doesn't talk you to death--he's said too much already."I have no time now to tell you all that I have seen and heard.I have
ridden with the President, and have gone with him on errands of mercy
and errands of cheer.I have been almost within sight of what we hope is
the last struggle of this frightful war.I have listened to the guns of
Five Forks, where Sheridan and Warren bore their own colors in the front
of the charge, I was with Mr.Lincoln while the battle of Petersburg was
raging, and there were tears in his eyes.Then came the retreat of Lee and the instant pursuit of Grant,
and--Richmond.The quiet General did not so much as turn aside to enter
the smoking city he had besieged for so long.But I went there, with the
President.And if I had one incident in my life to live over again, I
should choose this.As we were going up the river, a disabled steamer
lay across the passage in the obstruction of piles the Confederates had
built.There were but a few of us in his
party, and we stepped into Admiral Porter's twelve-oared barge and were
rowed to Richmond, the smoke of the fires still darkening the sky.We
landed within a block of Libby Prison.With the little guard of ten sailors he marched the mile and a half
to General Weitzel's headquarters,--the presidential mansion of the
Confederacy.I shall remember him always as
I saw him that day, a tall, black figure of sorrow, with the high silk
hat we have learned to love.Unafraid, his heart rent with pity, he
walked unharmed amid such tumult as I have rarely seen.The windows
filled, the streets ahead of us became choked, as the word that the
President was coming ran on like quick-fire.The <DW64>s wept aloud and cried
hosannas.They pressed upon him that they might touch the hem of his
coat, and one threw himself on his knees and kissed the President's
feet.Still he walked on unharmed, past the ashes and the ruins.Not as a
conqueror was he come, to march in triumph.Though there were many times when we had to fight for a path through the
crowds, he did not seem to feel the danger.Was it because he knew that his hour was not yet come?To-day, on the boat, as we were steaming between the green shores of the
Potomac, I overheard him reading to Mr.Sumner:--

          "Duncan is in his grave;
        After life's fitful fever he sleeps well;
        Treason has done his worst; nor steel, nor poison,
        Malice domestic, foreign levy, nothing,
        Can touch him further."WILLARD'S HOTEL, WASHINGTON, April 10, 1865.I have looked up the passage, and have written it in above.MAN OF SORROW

The train was late--very late.It was Virginia who first caught sight
of the new dome of the Capitol through the slanting rain, but she merely
pressed her lips together and said nothing.In the dingy brick station
of the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad more than one person paused to look
after them, and a kind-hearted lady who had been in the car kissed the
girl good-by."You think that you can find your uncle's house, my dear?"she asked,
glancing at Virginia with concern.Through all of that long journey she
had worn a look apart."Do you think you can find your uncle's house?"And then she smiled as she looked at the honest,
alert, and squarely built gentleman beside her.Whereupon the kind lady gave the Captain her hand."You look as if you
could, Captain," said she."Remember, if General Carvel is out of town,
you promised to bring her to me.""Yes, ma'am," said Captain Lige, "and so I shall."No sah, dat ain't de kerridge
you wants.Dat's it, lady, you'se lookin at it.Kerridge, kerridge,
kerridge!"Virginia tried bravely to smile, but she was very near to tears as she
stood on the uneven pavement and looked at the scrawny horses standing
patiently in the steady downpour.All sorts of people were coming
and going, army officers and navy officers and citizens of states and
territories, driving up and driving away.She was thinking then of the multitude who came here with aching
hearts,--with heavier hearts than was hers that day.How many of the
throng hurrying by would not flee, if they could, back to the peaceful
homes they had left?Destroyed,
like her own, by the war.Women with children at their breasts, and
mothers bowed with sorrow, had sought this city in their agony.Young
men and old had come hither, striving to keep back the thoughts of dear
ones left behind, whom they might never see again.And by the thousands
and tens of thousands they had passed from here to the places of blood
beyond."Do you know where General Daniel Carvel lives?""Yes, sah, reckon I does.Virginia sank back on the stuffy cushions of the rattle-trap, and then
sat upright again and stared out of the window at the dismal scene.They
were splashing through a sea of mud.Louis,
Captain Lige had done his best to cheer her, and he did not intend to
desist now."So this is Washington, Why, it don't
compare to St.Louis, except we haven't got the White House and the
Capitol.Jinny, it would take a scow to get across the street, and we
don't have ramshackly stores and <DW65> cabins bang up against fine
Houses like that.We don't
have any dirty pickaninnies dodging among the horses in our residence
streets.I declare, Jinny, if those aren't pigs!""I hope Uncle Daniel has some breakfast for you.You've had a good deal to put up with on this trip.""Lordy, Jinny," said the Captain, "I'd put up with a good deal more than
this for the sake of going anywhere with you.""Even to such a doleful place as this?""This is all right, if the sun'll only come out and dry things up and
let us see the green on those trees," he said, "Lordy, how I do love to
see the spring green in the sunlight!""Lige," she said, "you know you're just trying to keep up my spirits.You've been doing that ever since we left home.""No such thing," he replied with vehemence."There's nothing for you to
be cast down about.""Suppose I can't make your Black
Republican President pardon Clarence!"said the Captain, squeezing her hand and trying to appear
unconcerned.Just then the rattletrap pulled up at the sidewalk, the wheels of the
near side in four inches of mud, and the Captain leaped out and spread
the umbrella.They were in front of a rather imposing house of brick,
flanked on one side by a house just like it, and on the other by a
series of dreary vacant lots where the rain had collected in pools.They
climbed the steps and rang the bell.In due time the door was opened by
a smiling yellow butler in black."Yas, miss, But he ain't to home now."Didn't he get my telegram day before
yesterday?"He's done gone since Saturday, miss."And then, evidently impressed by
the young lady's looks, he added hospitably, "Kin I do anything fo' you,
miss?""I'm his niece, Miss Virginia Carvel, and this is Captain Brent."The yellow butler's face lighted up."Come right in, Miss Jinny, Done heerd de General speak of you
often--yas'm.De General'll be to home dis a'ternoon, suah.'Twill do
him good ter see you, Miss Jinny.Walk right
in, Cap'n, and make yo'selves at home.Lizbeth--Lizbeth!"Done seed her at
Calve't House."Very well, Lizbeth," said Virginia, listlessly sitting down on the hall
sofa."Yas'm," said Lizbeth, "jes' reckon we kin."She ushered them into a
walnut dining room, big and high and sombre, with plush-bottomed chairs
placed about--walnut also; for that was the fashion in those days.But the Captain had no sooner seated himself than he shot up again and
started out."To pay off the carriage driver," he said."I'm going to the White House in a little
while.""To see your Black Republican President," she replied, with alarming
calmness."Now, Jinny," he cried, in excited appeal, "don't go doin' any such fool
trick as that.Your Uncle Dan'l will be here this afternoon.And then the thing'll be fixed all right, and no
mistake."Her reply was in the same tone--almost a monotone--which she had used
for three days.It made the Captain very uneasy, for he knew when she
spoke in that way that her will was in it."And to lose that time," she answered, "may be to have him shot.""But you can't get to the President without credentials," he objected."What," she flashed, "hasn't any one a right to see the President?You
mean to say that he will not see a woman in trouble?Then all these
pretty stories I hear of him are false.They are made up by the
Yankees."He had some notion of the multitude of calls upon Mr.But he could not, he dared not,
remind her of the principal reason for this,--Lee's surrender and the
approaching end of the war.In the distant valley of the Mississippi he had only heard of
the President very conflicting things.He had heard him criticised and
reviled and praised, just as is every man who goes to the White House,
be he saint or sinner.And, during an administration, no man at a
distance may come at a President's true character and worth.The Captain
had seen Lincoln caricatured vilely.And again he had read and heard the
pleasant anecdotes of which Virginia had spoken, until he did not know
what to believe.As for Virginia, he knew her partisanship to, and undying love for, the
South; he knew the class prejudice which was bound to assert itself, and
he had seen enough in the girl's demeanor to fear that she was going to
demand rather than implore.She did not come of a race that was wont to
bend the knee."Well, well," he said despairingly, "you must eat some breakfast first,
Jinny."She waited with an ominous calmness until it was brought in, and then
she took a part of a roll and some coffee."This won't do," exclaimed the Captain."Why, why, that won't get you
halfway to Mr."You must eat enough, Lige," she said.He was finished in an incredibly short time, and amid the protestations
of Lizbeth and the yellow butler they got into the carriage again, and
splashed and rattled toward the White House.Once Virginia glanced out,
and catching sight of the bedraggled flags on the houses in honor of
Lee's surrender, a look of pain crossed her face.The Captain could not
repress a note of warning."Jinny," said he, "I have an idea that you'll find the President a good
deal of a man.Now if you're allowed to see him, don't get him mad,
Jinny, whatever you do.""If he is something of a man, Lige, he will not lose his temper with a
woman."And just then they came in sight of the house of
the Presidents, with its beautiful portico and its broad wings.And they
turned in under the dripping trees of the grounds.A carriage with a
black coachman and footman was ahead of them, and they saw two stately
gentlemen descend from it and pass the guard at the door.The Captain helped her out in his best manner, and gave some
money to the driver."I reckon he needn't wait for us this time, Jinny," said be.She shook
her head and went in, he following, and they were directed to the
anteroom of the President's office on the second floor.There were
many people in the corridors, and one or two young officers in blue who
stared at her.But her spirits sank when they came to the anteroom.It was full of all
sorts of people.Politicians, both prosperous and seedy, full faced and
keen faced, seeking office; women, officers, and a one-armed soldier
sitting in the corner.He was among the men who offered Virginia their
seats, and the only one whom she thanked.But she walked directly to the
doorkeeper at the end of the room."Then you'll have to wait your turn, sir," he said, shaking his head and
looking at Virginia."It's slow work waiting your turn,
there's so many governors and generals and senators, although the
session's over.And added, with an inspiration,
"I must see him.She saw instantly, with a woman's instinct, that these words had had
their effect.The old man glanced at her again, as if demurring."You're sure, miss, it's life and death?""Oh, why should I say so if it were not?""The orders are very strict," he said."But the President told me to
give precedence to cases when a life is in question.Just you wait a
minute, miss, until Governor Doddridge comes out, and I'll see what I
can do for you.In a little while the heavy door
opened, and a portly, rubicund man came out with a smile on his face.He broke into a laugh, when halfway across the room, as if the memory of
what he had heard were too much for his gravity.The doorkeeper slipped
into the room, and there was a silent, anxious interval.Captain Lige started forward with her, but she restrained him."Wait for me here, Lige," she said.She swept in alone, and the door closed softly after her.The room was
a big one, and there were maps on the table, with pins sticking in them.Could this fantastically tall, stooping figure before her be that of the
President of the United States?She stopped, as from the shock he gave
her.The lean, yellow face with the mask-like lines all up and down,
the unkempt, tousled hair, the beard--why, he was a hundred times more
ridiculous than his caricatures.He might have stood for many of the
poor white trash farmers she had seen in Kentucky--save for the long
black coat.Somehow that smile changed his face a
little."I guess I'll have to own up," he answered."My name is Virginia Carvel," she said."I have come all the way from
St."Miss Carvel," said the President, looking at her intently, "I have
rarely been so flattered in my life.I--I hope I have not disappointed
you.""Oh, you haven't," she cried, her eyes flashing, "because I am what you
would call a Rebel."The mirth in the dark corners of his eyes disturbed her more and more.And then she saw that the President was laughing."And have you a better name for it, Miss Carvel?""Because I
am searching for a better name--just now.""No, thank you," said Virginia; "I think that I can say what I have come
to say better standing."That reminds me of a story they tell
about General Buck Tanner.One day the
boys asked him over to the square to make a speech."'I'm all right when I get standing up, Liza,' he said to his wife.Only trouble is they come too cussed fast.How'm I going to stop 'em when I want to?'"'Well, I du declare, Buck,' said she, 'I gave you credit for some
sense.All you've got to do is to set down."So the General went over to the square and talked for about an hour
and a half, and then a Chicago man shouted to him to dry up."'Boys,' said he, 'it's jest every bit as bad for me as it is for you.You'll have to hand up a chair, boys, because I'm never going to get
shet of this goldarned speech any anther way.'"Lincoln had told this so comically that Virginia was forced to
laugh, and she immediately hated herself.A man who could joke at such
a time certainly could not feel the cares and responsibilities of his
office.And yet this was the President
who had conducted the war, whose generals had conquered the Confederacy.And she was come to ask him a favor.Lincoln," she began, "I have come to talk to you about my cousin,
Colonel Clarence Colfax.""I shall be happy to talk to you about your cousin, Colonel Colfax, Miss
Carvel."He is my first cousin," she retorted."Why didn't he come
with you?""He is Clarence Colfax, of St.Louis, now a Colonel in the army of the Confederate States."Virginia tossed her head in
exasperation."In General Joseph Johnston's army," she replied, trying to be patient."But now," she gulped, "now he has been arrested as a spy by General
Sherman's army.""And--and they are going to shoot him.""Oh, no, he doesn't," she cried."You don't know how brave he is!He
floated down the Mississippi on a log, out of Vicksburg, and brought
back thousands and thousands of percussion caps.He rowed across the
river when the Yankee fleet was going down, and set fire to De Soto so
that they could see to shoot."Lincoln, "that's a good starter.""Miss Carvel," said he, "that argument reminds me of a story about a man
I used to know in the old days in Illinois.His name was McNeil, and he
was a lawyer."One day he was defending a prisoner for assault and battery before
Judge Drake."'Judge, says McNeil, 'you oughtn't to lock this man up.It was a fair
fight, and he's the best man in the state in a fair fight.And, what's
more, he's never been licked in a fair fight in his life.'"'And if your honor does lock me up,' the prisoner put in, 'I'll give
your honor a thunderin' big lickin' when I get out.'"'Gentlemen,' said he, 'it's a powerful queer argument, but the Court
will admit it on its merits.The prisoner will please to step out on the
grass.'"She was striving against
something, she knew not what.Her breath was coming deeply, and she was
dangerously near to tears.She had come into
this man's presence despising herself for having to ask him a favor.Now she could not look into it
without an odd sensation.Told her a few funny stories--given quizzical
answers to some of her questions.Quizzical, yes; but she could not be
sure then there was not wisdom in them, and that humiliated her.She had
never conceived of such a man.And, be it added gratuitously, Virginia
deemed herself something of an adept in dealing with men.Lincoln, "to continue for the defence, I believe
that Colonel Colfax first distinguished himself at the time of Camp
Jackson, when of all the prisoners he refused to accept a parole."Startled, she looked up at him swiftly, and then down again."Yes,"
she answered, "yes.Lincoln, please don't hold that against
him."If she could only have seen his face then."My dear young lady," replied the President, "I honor him for it.I was
merely elaborating the argument which you have begun.On the other hand,
it is a pity that he should have taken off that uniform which he adorned
and attempted to enter General Sherman's lines as a civilian,--as a
spy."He had spoken these last words very gently, but she was too excited to
heed his gentleness.She drew herself up, a gleam in her eyes like the
crest of a blue wave in a storm.she cried; "it takes more courage to be a spy than anything
else in war.You are not content in, the North
with what you have gained.You are not content with depriving us of
our rights, and our fortunes, with forcing us back to an allegiance we
despise.You are not content with humiliating our generals and putting
innocent men in prisons.But now I suppose you will shoot us all.And
all this mercy that I have heard about means nothing--nothing--"

Why did she falter and stop?"Miss Carvel," said the President, "I am afraid from what I have heard
just now, that it means nothing."Oh, the sadness of that voice,--the
ineffable sadness,--the sadness and the woe of a great nation!And the
sorrow in those eyes, the sorrow of a heavy cross borne meekly,--how
heavy none will ever know.The pain of a crown of thorns worn for a
world that did not understand.No wonder Virginia faltered and
was silent.She looked at Abraham Lincoln standing there, bent and
sorrowful, and it was as if a light had fallen upon him.But strangest
of all in that strange moment was that she felt his strength.It was the
same strength she had felt in Stephen Brice.This was the thought that
came to her.Slowly she walked to the window and looked out across the green grounds
where the wind was shaking the wet trees, past the unfinished monument
to the Father of her country, and across the broad Potomac to Alexandria
in the hazy distance.The rain beat upon the panes, and then she knew
that she was crying softly to herself.She had met a force that she
could not conquer, she had looked upon a sorrow that she could not
fathom, albeit she had known sorrow.She turned and looked through her tears
at his face that was all compassion."Tell me about your cousin," he said; "are you going to marry him?"But in
that moment she could not have spoken anything but the truth to save her
soul.Lincoln," she said; "I was--but I did not love him.I--I think
that was one reason why he was so reckless.""The officer who happened to see Colonel Colfax captured is now in
Washington.When your name was given to me, I sent for him.Perhaps he
is in the anteroom now.I should like to tell you, first of all, that
this officer defended your cousin and asked me to pardon him."He strode to the bell-cord, and spoke a few
words to the usher who answered his ring.Then the door opened, and a young officer, spare,
erect, came quickly into the room, and bowed respectfully to the
President.He saw her lips part and the
color come flooding into her face.The President sighed But the light in her eyes was reflected in his own.It has been truly said that Abraham Lincoln knew the human heart.The officer still stood facing the President, the girl staring at his
profile.Lincoln,
"when you asked me to pardon Colonel Colfax, I believe that you told me
he was inside his own skirmish lines when he was captured."Suddenly Stephen turned, as if impelled by the President's gaze, and so
his eyes met Virginia's.He forgot time and place,--for the while even
this man whom he revered above all men.He saw her hand tighten on the
arm of her chair.He took a step toward her, and stopped."He put in a plea, a lawyer's plea, wholly unworthy of him, Miss
Virginia.He asked me to let your cousin off on a technicality.Just the exclamation escaped her--nothing more.The
crimson that had betrayed her deepened on her cheeks.Slowly the eyes
she had yielded to Stephen came back again and rested on the President.And now her wonder was that an ugly man could be so beautiful.Lawyer," the President continued, "that I
am not letting off Colonel Colfax on a technicality.I am sparing his
life," he said slowly, "because the time for which we have been waiting
and longing for four years is now at hand--the time to be merciful.She crossed the room, her head lifted, her heart
lifted, to where this man of sorrows stood smiling down at her.Lincoln," she faltered, "I did not know you when I came here.I
should have known you, for I had heard him--I had heard Major Brice
praise you.Oh," she cried, "how I wish that every man and woman and
child in the South might come here and see you as I have seen you
to-day.I think--I think that some of their bitterness might be taken
away."Abraham Lincoln laid his hands upon the girl.And Stephen, watching,
knew that he was looking upon a benediction.Lincoln, "I have not suffered by the South, I have
suffered with the South.Your sorrow has been my sorrow, and your pain
has been my pain.And what you have
gained," he added sublimely, "I have gained."The clouds were flying before the wind,
and a patch of blue sky shone above the Potomac.With his long arm he
pointed across the river to the southeast, and as if by a miracle a
shaft of sunlight fell on the white houses of Alexandria."In the first days of the war," he said, "a flag flew there in sight of
the place where George Washington lived and died.I used to watch
that flag, and thank God that Washington had not lived to see it.And
sometimes, sometimes I wondered if God had allowed it to be put in irony
just there.""I should have known that this was our punishment--that the sight of
it was my punishment.Before we could become the great nation He has
destined us to be, our sins must be wiped out in blood."I say in all sincerity, may you always love it.May the day come when
this Nation, North and South, may look back upon it with reverence.Thousands upon thousands of brave Americans have died under it for what
they believed was right.But may the day come again when you will love
that flag you see there now--Washington's flag--better still."He stopped, and the tears were wet upon Virginia's lashes.Lincoln went over to his desk and sat down before it.Then he began
to write, slouched forward, one knee resting on the floor, his lips
moving at the same time.When he got up again he seemed taller than
ever.he said, "I guess that will fix it.I'll have that sent to
Sherman.I have already spoken to him about the matter."He turned to Stephen
with that quizzical look on his face he had so often seen him wear."Steve," he said, "I'll tell you a story.The other night Harlan was
here making a speech to a crowd out of the window, and my boy Tad was
sitting behind him."'No,' says Tad, 'hang on to 'em.'That is what we intend to do,--hang on to 'em.Lincoln, putting his hand again on Virginia's
shoulder, "if you have the sense I think you have, you'll hang on, too."For an instant he stood smiling at their blushes,--he to whom the power
was given to set apart his cares and his troubles and partake of the
happiness of others.he said, "I am ten
minutes behind my appointment at the Department.Miss Virginia, you may
care to thank the Major for the little service he has done you.You can
do so undisturbed here.As he opened the door he paused and looked back at them.The smile
passed from his face, and an ineffable expression of longing--longing
and tenderness--came upon it.For a space, while his spell was upon them, they did not stir.Then
Stephen sought her eyes that had been so long denied him.It was Virginia who first found her voice, and she
called him by his name."Oh, Stephen," she said, "how sad he looked!"He was close to her, at her side.And he answered her in the earnest
tone which she knew so well."Virginia, if I could have had what I most wished for in the world, I
should have asked that you should know Abraham Lincoln."Then she dropped her eyes, and her breath came quickly."I--I might have known," she answered, "I might have known what he was.I had seen him in you, and I did not know.Do you remember that day when we were in the summer-house together at
Glencoe, long ago?"You were changed then," she said bravely."When I saw him," said Stephen, reverently, "I knew how little and
narrow I was."Then, overcome by the incense of her presence, he drew her to him until
her heart beat against his own.She did not resist, but lifted her face
to him, and he kissed her."Yes, Stephen," she answered, low, more wonderful in her surrender than
ever before.Then she hid her face against his blue coat.Oh, Stephen, how I have struggled against it!How I have tried to hate you, and couldn't.I tried to
insult you, I did insult you.And when I saw how splendidly you bore it,
I used to cry.""I loved you through it all," he said.She raised her head quickly, and awe was in her eyes."Because I dreamed of you," he answered."And those dreams used to linger
with me half the day as I went about my work.I used to think of them as
I sat in the saddle on the march.""I, too, treasured them," she said.Faintly, "I have no one but you--now."Once more he drew her to him, and she gloried in his strength."God help me to cherish you, dear," he said, "and guard you well."She drew away from him, gently, and turned toward the window."See, Stephen," she cried, "the sun has come out at last."For a while they were silent, looking out; the drops glistened on blade
and leaf, and the joyous new green of the earth entered into their
hearts.ANNAPOLIS

IT was Virginia's wish, and was therefore sacred.As for Stephen, he
little cared whither they went.And so they found themselves on that
bright afternoon in mid-April under the great trees that arch the
unpaved streets of old Annapolis.They stopped by direction at a gate, and behind it was a green cluster
of lilac bushes, which lined the walk to the big plum- house
which Lionel Carvel had built.Virginia remembered that down this walk
on a certain day in June, a hundred years agone, Richard Carvel had led
Dorothy Manners.They climbed the steps, tottering now with age and disuse, and Virginia
playfully raised the big brass knocker, brown now, that Scipio had been
wont to polish until it shone.Stephen took from his pocket the clumsy
key that General Carvel had given him, and turned it in the rusty lock.The door swung open, and Virginia stood in the hall of her ancestors.It was musty and damp this day as the day when Richard had come back
from England and found it vacant and his grandfather dead.But there,
at the parting of the stairs, was the triple-arched window which he had
described.Through it the yellow afternoon light was flooding now, even
as then, checkered by the branches in their first fringe of green.But
the tall clock which Lionel Carvel used to wind was at Calvert House,
with many another treasure.They went up the stairs, and reverently they walked over the bare
floors, their footfalls echoing through the silent house.A score of
scenes in her great-grandfather's life came to Virginia.Here was the
room--the cornet one at the back of the main building, which looked out
over the deserted garden--that had been Richard's mother's.She recalled
how he had stolen into it on that summer's day after his return, and had
flung open the shutters.They were open now, for their locks were off.The prie-dieu was gone, and the dresser.But the high bed was there,
stripped of its poppy counterpane and white curtains; and the steps by
which she had entered it.And next they went into the great square room that had been Lionel
Carvel's, and there, too, was the roomy bed on which the old gentleman
had lain with the gout, while Richard read to him from the Spectator.One side of it looked out on the trees in Freshwater Lane; and the other
across the roof of the low house opposite to where the sun danced on the
blue and white waters of the Chesapeake."Honey," said Virginia, as they stood in the deep recess of the window,
"wouldn't it be nice if we could live here always, away from the world?But you would never be content to do that," she said,
smiling reproachfully."You are the kind of man who must be in the midst
of things.In a little while you will have far more besides me to think
about."He was quick to catch the note of sadness in her voice."We all have our duty to perform in the world, dear," he answered."To think that I should have married a
Puritan!What would my great-great-great-great-grandfather say, who was
such a stanch Royalist?Why, I think I can see him frowning at me now,
from the door, in his blue velvet goat and silverlaced waistcoat.""He was well punished," retorted Stephen, "his own grandson was a Whig,
and seems to have married a woman of spirit.""I am sure that she did not allow my
great-grandfather to kiss her--unless she wanted to."And she looked up at him, half smiling, half pouting; altogether
bewitching."From what I hear of him, he was something of a man," said Stephen."I am glad that Marlborough Street isn't a crowded thoroughfare," said
Virginia.When they had seen the dining room, with its carved mantel and silver
door-knobs, and the ballroom in the wing, they came out, and Stephen
locked the door again.They walked around the house, and stood looking
down the terraces,--once stately, but crumbled now,--where Dorothy had
danced on the green on Richard's birthday.Beyond and below was the
spring-house, and there was the place where the brook dived under the
ruined wall,--where Dorothy had wound into her hair the lilies of the
valley before she sailed for London.The remains of a wall that had once held a balustrade marked the
outlines of the formal garden.The trim hedges, for seventy years
neglected, had grown incontinent.The garden itself was full of wild
green things coming up through the brown of last season's growth.But
in the grass the blue violets nestled, and Virginia picked some of these
and put them in Stephen's coat."You must keep them always," she said, "because we got them here."They spied a seat beside a hoary trunk.There on many a spring day
Lionel Carvel had sat reading his Gazette.The sun hung low over the old-world gables in the street beyond the
wall, and in the level rays was an apple tree dazzling white, like a
bride.The sweet fragrance which the day draws from the earth lingered
in the air."Stephen, do you remember that fearful afternoon of the panic, when you
came over from Anne Brinsmade's to reassure me?""But what made you think of it now?"But you were so strong, so calm,
so sure of yourself.I think that made me angry when I thought how
ridiculous I must have been."But do
you know what I had under my arm--what I was saving of all the things I
owned?""No," he answered; "but I have often wondered.""This house--this place made me think of it.It was Dorothy Manners's
gown, and her necklace.They were all the
remembrance I had of that night at Mr.Brinsmade's gate, when we came so
near to each other.""Virginia," he said, "some force that we cannot understand has brought
us together, some force that we could not hinder.It is foolish for me
to say so, but on that day of the slave auction, when I first saw you,
I had a premonition about you that I have never admitted until now, even
to myself.""Why, Stephen," she cried, "I felt the same way!""And then," he continued quickly, "it was strange that I should have
gone to Judge Whipple, who was an intimate of your father's--such a
singular intimate.And then came your party, and Glencoe, and that
curious incident at the Fair.""When I was talking to the Prince, and looked up and saw you among all
those people.""That was the most uncomfortable of all, for me.""Stephen," she said, stirring the leaves at her feet, "you might have
taken me in your arms the night Judge Whipple died--if you had wanted
to.I love you all the more for
that."Again she said:-- "It was through your mother, dearest, that we were
most strongly drawn together.I worshipped her from the day I saw her in
the hospital.I believe that was the beginning of my charity toward the
North.""My mother would have chosen you above all women, Virginia," he
answered.In the morning came to them the news of Abraham Lincoln's death.And the
same thought was in both their hearts, who had known him as it was given
to few to know him.How he had lived in sorrow; how he had died a martyr
on the very day of Christ's death upon the cross.And they believed that
Abraham Lincoln gave his life for his country even as Christ gave his
for the world.And so must we believe that God has reserved for this Nation a destiny
high upon the earth.Many years afterward Stephen Brice read again to his wife those sublime
closing words of the second inaugural:--

   "With malice toward none, with charity for all, with firmness in the
   right as God gives us to see the right, let us strive on to finish
   the work we are in, to bind up the nation's wounds, to care for him
   who shall have borne the battle, and for his widow and his children
   --to do all which may achieve and cherish a just and lasting peace
   among ourselves and with all nations."AFTERWORD

The author has chosen St.Louis for the principal scene of this story
for many reasons.Grant and Sherman were living there before the Civil
War, and Abraham Lincoln was an unknown lawyer in the neighboring
state of Illinois.It has been one of the aims of this book to show the
remarkable contrasts in the lives of these great men who came out of the
West.Louis, which was founded by Laclede in 1765,
likewise became the principal meeting-place of two great streams of
emigration which had been separated, more or less, since Cromwell's day.To be sure, they were not all Cavaliers who settled in the tidewater
Colonies.There were Puritan settlements in both Maryland and Virginia.But the life in the Southern states took on the more liberal tinge which
had characterized that of the Royalists, even to the extent of affecting
the Scotch Calvinists, while the asceticism of the Roundheads was the
keynote of the Puritan character in New England.When this great country
of ours began to develop, the streams moved westward; one over what
became the plain states of Ohio and Indiana and Illinois, and the other
across the Blue Ridge Mountains into Kentucky and Tennessee.They mixed
along the line of the Ohio River.Louis, and, farther
west, in Kansas.The part played by
this people in the Civil War is a matter of history.The scope of this
book has not permitted the author to introduce the peasantry and trading
classes which formed the mass in this movement.But Richter, the type
of the university-bred revolutionist which emigrated after '48, is drawn
more or less from life.And the duel described actually took place in
Berlin.Louis is the author's birthplace, and his home, the home of those
friends whom he has known from childhood and who have always treated him
with unfaltering kindness.He begs that they will believe him when he
says that only such characters as he loves are reminiscent of those
he has known there.The city has a large population,--large enough to
include all the types that are to be found in the middle West.This book is written of a time when feeling ran high.It has been necessary to put strong speech into the mouths of the
characters.The breach that threatened our country's existence is healed
now.There is no side but Abraham Lincoln's side.And this side, with
all reverence and patriotism, the author has tried to take.Abraham Lincoln loved the South as well as the North.A few years hence, when the results of this study in our Normal Schools
shall be realized in the preparation of the teacher, we can depend upon
her adapting oral lessons from advanced works on this theme, but now,
the average primary teacher brings to this study no experience, and
limited previous study.To meet this need, this work has been prepared.Technical terms have
been avoided, and only such facts of physiology developed as are
necessary to the treatment of the effects of alcohol, tobacco, opium,
and other truths of hygiene.To the children in the Primary Schools of this country, for whom it was
prepared, this work is dedicated.[Illustration]




CONTENTS


  CHAPTER                                      PAGE

          FRONTISPIECE                            2

          TITLE-PAGE                              3

          PREFACE                                 5

          CONTENTS                                7

      I.--JOINTS AND BONES                        9

     II.--MUSCLES                                19

    III.--NERVES                                 25

     IV.--WHAT IS ALCOHOL?37

      V.--BEER                                   43

     VI.--DISTILLING                             47

    VII.--ALCOHOL                                50

   VIII.--TOBACCO                                53

     IX.--OPIUM                                  59

      X.--WHAT ARE ORGANS?61

     XI.--WHAT DOES THE BODY NEED FOR FOOD?71

    XII.--HOW FOOD BECOMES PART OF THE BODY      79

   XIII.--STRENGTH                               85

    XIV.--THE HEART                              93

     XV.--THE LUNGS                              97

    XVI.--THE SKIN                              103

   XVII.--THE SENSES                            109

  XVIII.--HEAT AND COLD                         115

    XIX.--WASTED MONEY                          122




CHAPTER I.

JOINTS AND BONES.[Illustration: L]ITTLE girls like a jointed doll to play with, because
they can bend such a doll in eight or ten places, make it stand or sit,
or can even play that it is walking.[Illustration: _Jointed dolls._]

As you study your own bodies to-day, you will find that you each have
better joints than any dolls that can be bought at a toy shop.Some of your joints work like the hinges of a door, and these are called
hinge-joints.You can find them in your elbows, knees, fingers, and toes.How many hinge-joints can you find?Think how many hinges must be used by the boy who takes off his hat and
makes a polite bow to his teacher, when she meets him on the street.How many hinges do you use in running up-stairs, opening the door,
buttoning your coat or your boots, playing ball or digging in your
garden?You see that we use these hinges nearly all the time.All our joints are not hinge-joints.Your shoulder has a joint that lets your arm swing round and round, as
well as move up and down.Your hip has another that lets your leg move in much the same way.[Illustration: _The hip-joint._]

This kind of joint is the round end or ball of a long bone, which moves
in a hole, called a socket.Your joints do not creak or get out of order, as those of doors and
gates sometimes do.A soft, smooth fluid, much like the white of an egg,
keeps them moist and makes them work easily.What parts of our bodies are jointed together so nicely?If you should count all your bones, you would find that each of you has
about two hundred.Some are large; and some, very small.There are long-hones in your legs and arms, and many short ones in your
fingers and toes.[Illustration: _Backbone of a fish._]

If you look at the backbone of a fish, you can see that it is made up-of
many little bones.Your own spine is formed in much the same way, of
twenty-four small bones.An elastic cushion of gristle (gr[)i]s'l) fits
nicely in between each little bone and the next.When you bend, these cushions are pressed together on one side and
stretched on the other.They settle back into their first shape, as
soon as you stand straight again.If you ever rode in a wheelbarrow, or a cart without springs, you know
what a jolting it gave you.These little spring cushions keep you from
being shaken even more severely every time you move.Twenty-four ribs, twelve on each side, curve around from the spine to
the front, or breast, bone.(_See page 38._)

They are so covered with flesh that perhaps you can not feel and count
them; but they are there.Then you have two flat shoulder-blades, and two collar-bones that almost
meet in front, just where your collar fastens.Take two little bones, such as those from the legs or wings of a
chicken, put one of them into the fire, when it is not very hot, and
leave it there two or three hours.Soak the other bone in some weak
muriatic (m[=u] r[)i] [)a]t'[)i]k) acid.This acid can be bought of any
druggist.You will have to be careful in taking the bone out of the fire, for it
is all ready to break.If you strike it a quick blow, it will crumble to
dust.This dust we call lime, and it is very much like the lime from
which the mason makes mortar.[Illustration: _Bone tied to a knot._]

The acid has taken the lime from the other bone, so only the part which
is not lime is left.You will be surprised to see how easily it will
bend.You can twist it and tie it into a knot; but it will not easily
break.This soft part of the bone is gristle.Children's bones have more gristle than those of older people; so
children's bones bend easily.I know a lady who has one leg shorter than the other.This makes her
lame, and she has to wear a boot with iron supports three or four inches
high, in order to walk at all.One day she told me how she became lame."I remember," she said, "when I was between three and four years old,
sitting one day in my high chair at the table, and twisting one foot
under the little step of the chair.The next morning I felt lame; but
nobody could tell what was the matter.At last, the doctors found out
that the trouble all came from that twist.It had gone too far to be
cured.Before I had this boot, I could only walk with a crutch."Because the spine is made of little bones with cushions between them, it
bends easily, and children sometimes bend it more than they ought.If you lean over your book or your writing or any other work, the
elastic cushions may get so pressed on the inner edge that they do not
easily spring back into shape.In this way, you may grow
round-shouldered or hump-backed.This bending over, also cramps the lungs, so that they do not have all
the room they need for breathing.While you are young, your bones are
easily bent.One shoulder or one hip gets higher than the other, if you
stand unevenly.This is more serious, because you are growing, and you
may grow crooked before you know it.Now that you know how soft your bones are, and how easily they bend, you
will surely be careful to sit and stand erect.Do not twist your legs,
or arms, or shoulders; for you want to grow into straight and graceful
men and women, instead of being round-shouldered, or hump-backed, or
lame, all your lives.When people are old, their bones contain more lime, and, therefore,
break more easily.You should be kindly helpful to old people, so that they may not fall,
and possibly break their bones.Healthy children are always out-growing their shoes, and sometimes
faster than they wear them out.Tight shoes cause corns and in-growing
nails and other sore places on the feet.All of these are very hard to
get rid of.No one should wear a shoe that pinches or hurts the foot.OUGHT A BOY TO USE TOBACCO?Perhaps some boy will say: "Grown people are always telling us, 'this
will do for men, but it is not good for boys.'"Tobacco is not good for men; but there is a very good reason why it is
worse for boys.If you were going to build a house, would it be wise for you to put into
the stone-work of the cellar something that would make it less strong?Something into the brick-work or the mortar, the wood-work or the nails,
the walls or the chimneys, that would make them weak and tottering,
instead of strong and steady?It would he had enough if you should repair your house with poor
materials; but surely it must be built in the first place with the best
you can get.You will soon learn that boys and girls are building their bodies, day
after day, until at last they reach full size.Afterward, they must be repaired as fast as they wear out.It would be foolish to build any part in a way to make it weaker than
need be.Wise doctors have said that the boy who uses tobacco while he is
growing, makes every part of his body less strong than it otherwise
would be.Boys who smoke can not become such large, fine-looking men as they would
if they did not smoke.Cigarettes are small, but they are very poisonous.Chewing tobacco is a
worse and more filthy habit even than smoking.The frequent spitting it
causes is disgusting to others and hurts the health of the chewer.Tobacco in any form is a great enemy to youth.It stunts the growth,
hurts the mind, and <DW36>s in every way the boy or girl who uses it.Not that it does all this to every youth who smokes, but it is always
true that no boy of seven to fourteen can begin to smoke or chew and
have so fine a body and mind when he is twenty-one years old as he would
have had if he had never used tobacco.If you want to be strong and well
men and women, do not use tobacco in any form.Find as many of each kind as you can.How many bones are there in your whole body?Why could you not use it so well if it were all
          in one piece?What is the use of the little cushions between
          the bones of the spine?What is the difference between the bones of
          children and the bones of old people?What happens if you lean over your desk or
          work?What other bones may be injured by wrong
          positions?What is always true of its use by youth?[Illustration: W]HAT makes the limbs move?You have to take hold of the door to move it back and forth; but you
need not take hold of your arm to move that.Sometimes a door or gate is made to shut itself, if you leave it open.This can be done by means of a wide rubber strap, one end of which is
fastened to the frame of the door near the hinge, and the other end to
the door, out near its edge.When we push open the door, the rubber strap is stretched; but as soon
as we have passed through, the strap tightens, draws the door back, and
shuts it.If you stretch out your right arm, and clasp the upper part tightly with
your left hand, then work the elbow joint strongly back and forth, you
can feel something under your hand draw up, and then lengthen out again,
each time you bend the joint.What you feel, is a muscle (m[)u]s'sl), and it works your joints very
much as the rubber strap works the hinge of the door.One end of the muscle is fastened to the bone just below the elbow
joint; and the other end, higher up above the joint.When it tightens, or contracts, as we say, it bends the joint.When the
arm is straightened, the muscle returns to its first shape.There is another muscle on the outside of the arm which stretches when
this one shortens, and so helps the working of the joint.Every joint has two or more muscles of its own to work it.Think how many there must be in our fingers!If we should undertake to count all the muscles that move our whole
bodies, it would need more counting than some of you could do.You can see muscles on the dinner table; for they are only lean meat.[Illustration: _Tendons of the hand._]

They are fastened to the bones by strong cords, called tendons
(t[)e]n'd[)o]nz).These tendons can be seen in the leg of a chicken or
turkey.They sometimes hold the meat so firmly that it is hard for you
to get it off.When you next try to pick a "drum-stick," remember that
you are eating the strong muscles by which the chicken or turkey moved
his legs as he walked about the yard.The parts that have the most work
to do, need the strongest muscles.Did you ever see the swallows flying about the eaves of a barn?They have very small legs and feet,
because they do not need to walk.The muscles that move the wings are fastened to the breast.These breast
muscles of the swallow must be large and strong.People who work hard with any part of the body make the muscles of that
part very strong.The blacksmith has big, strong muscles in his arms because he uses them
so much.You are using your muscles every day, and this helps them to grow.Once I saw a little girl who had been very sick.She had to lie in bed
for many weeks.Before her sickness she had plenty of stout muscles in
her arms and legs and was running about the house from morning till
night, carrying her big doll in her arms.After her sickness, she could hardly walk ten steps, and would rather
sit and look at her playthings than try to lift them.She had to make
new muscles as fast as possible.Running, coasting, games of ball, and all brisk play and work, help to
make strong muscles.So idleness is an enemy to the muscles.There is another enemy to the muscles about which I must tell you.WHAT ALCOHOL WILL DO TO THE MUSCLES.Fat meat could not work your joints for you as
the muscles do.Alcohol often changes a part of the muscles to fat, and
so takes away a part of their strength.In this way, people often grow
very fleshy from drinking beer, because it contains alcohol, as you will
soon learn.But they can not work any better on account of having this
fat.Where are the muscles in your arms, which help
          you to move your elbows?What do we call the muscles of the lower
          animals?Why do chickens and turkeys need strong muscles
          in their legs?What makes the muscles of the blacksmith's arm
          so strong?[Illustration: H]OW do the muscles know when to move?You have all seen the telegraph wires, by which messages are sent from
one town to another, all over the country.You are too young to understand how this is done, but you each have
something inside of you, by which you are sending messages almost every
minute while you are awake.We will try to learn a little about its wonderful way of working.As you would be very badly off if you could not think, the brain is your
most precious part, and you have a strong box made of bone to keep it
in.[Illustration: _Diagram of the nervous system._]

We will call the brain the central telegraph office.Little white cords,
called nerves, connect the brain with the rest of the body.A large cord called the spinal cord, lies safely in a bony case made by
the spine, and many nerves branch off from this.If you put your finger on a hot stove, in an instant a message goes on
the nerve telegraph to the brain.It tells that wise thinking part that
your finger will burn, if it stays on the stove.In another instant, the brain sends back a message to the muscles that
move that finger, saying: "Contract quickly, bend the joint, and take
that poor finger away so that it will not be burned."You can hardly believe that there was time for all this sending of
messages; for as soon as you felt the hot stove, you pulled your finger
away.But you really could not have pulled it away, unless the brain had
sent word to the muscles to do it.Now, you know what we mean when we say, "As quick as thought."You see that the brain has a great deal of work to do, for it has to
send so many orders.There are some muscles which are moving quietly and steadily all the
time, though we take no notice of the motion.You do not have to think about breathing, and yet the muscles work all
the time, moving your chest.If we had to think about it every time we breathed, we should have no
time to think of any thing else.There is one part of the brain that takes care of such work for us.It
sends the messages about breathing, and keeps the breathing muscles and
many other muscles faithfully at work.It does all this without our
needing to know or think about it at all.Do you begin to see that your body is a busy work-shop, where many kinds
of work are being done all day and all night?Although we lie still and sleep in the night, the breathing must go on,
and so must the work of those other organs that never stop until we
die.The little white nerve-threads lie smoothly side by side, making small
white cords.Each kind of message goes on its own thread, so that the
messages need never get mixed or confused.They do all the
feeling for the whole body, and by means of them we have many pains and
many pleasures.If there was no nerve in your tooth it could not ache.But if there were
no nerves in your mouth and tongue, you could not taste your food.If there were no nerves in your hands, you might cut them and feel no
pain.But you could not feel your mother's soft, warm hand, as she laid
it on yours.One of your first duties is the care of yourselves.Children may say: "My father and mother take care of me."But even while
you are young, there are some ways in which no one can take care of you
but yourselves.The older you grow, the more this care will belong to
you, and to no one else.Think of the work all the parts of the body do for us, and how they help
us to be well and happy.Certainly the least we can do is to take care
of them and keep them in good order.CARE OF THE BRAIN AND NERVES.As one part of the brain has to take care of all the rest of the body,
and keep every organ at work, of course it can never go to sleep itself.If it did, the heart would stop pumping, the lungs would leave off
breathing, all other work would stop, and the body would be dead.But there is another part of the brain which does the thinking, and this
part needs rest.When you are asleep, you are not thinking, but you are breathing and
other work of the body is going on.If the thinking part of the brain does not have good quiet sleep, it
will soon wear out.A worn-out brain is not easy to repair.If well cared for, your brain will do the best of work for you for
seventy or eighty years without complaining.The nerves are easily tired out, and they need much rest.They get tired
if we do one thing too long at a time; they are rested by a change of
work.IS ALCOHOL GOOD FOR THE NERVES AND THE BRAIN?Think of the wonderful work the brain is all the time doing for you!You ought to give it the best of food to keep it in good working order.Any drink that contains alcohol is not a food to make one strong; but is
a poison to hurt, and at last to kill.It injures the brain and nerves so that they can not work well, and send
their messages properly.That is why the drunkard does not know what he
is about.Newspapers often tell us about people setting houses on fire; about men
who forgot to turn the switch, and so wrecked a railroad train; about
men who lay down on the railroad track and were run over by the cars.Often these stories end with: "The person had been drinking."When the
nerves are put to sleep by alcohol, people become careless and do not do
their work faithfully; sometimes, they can not even tell the difference
between a railroad track and a place of safety.The brain receives no
message, or the wrong one, and the person does not know what he is
doing.You may say that all men who drink liquor do not do such terrible
things.A little alcohol is not so bad as a great deal.But even a
little makes the head ache, and hurts the brain and nerves.A body kept pure and strong is of great service to its owner.There are
people who are not drunkards, but who often drink a little liquor.By
this means, they slowly poison their bodies.When sickness comes upon them, they are less able to bear it, and less
likely to get well again, than those who have never injured their bodies
with alcohol.When a sick or wounded man is brought into the hospital, one of the
first questions asked him by the doctor is: "Do you drink?"the next questions are, "What do you drink?"The answers he gives to these questions, show the doctor what chance the
man has of getting well.A man who never drinks liquor will get well, where a drinking man would
surely die.TOBACCO AND THE NERVES.Because many men say that it helps them, and makes them feel better.Shall I tell you how it makes them feel better?If a man is cold, the tobacco deadens his nerves so that he does not
feel the cold and does not take pains to make himself warmer.If a man is tired, or in trouble, tobacco will not really rest him or
help him out of his trouble.It only puts his nerves to sleep and helps him think that he is not
tired, and that he does not need to overcome his troubles.It puts his nerves to sleep very much as alcohol does, and helps him to
be contented with what ought not to content him.A boy who smokes or chews tobacco, is not so good a scholar as if he did
not use the poison.Usually, too, he is not so polite, nor so good a boy as he otherwise
would be.What message goes to the brain when you put
          your finger on a hot stove?What message comes back from the brain to the
          finger?What is meant by "As quick as thought"?Name some of the muscles which work without
          needing our thought.Why do not the nerve messages get mixed and
          confused?Why could you not feel, if you had no nerves?State some ways in which the nerves give us
          pain.State some ways in which they give us
          pleasure.What part of us has the most work to do?How must we keep the brain strong and well?What does alcohol do to the nerves and brain?Why does not a drunken man know what he is
          about?What causes most of the accidents we read of?Why could not the man who had been drinking
          tell the difference between a railroad track and a
          place of safety?How does the frequent drinking of a little
          liquor affect the body?How does sickness affect people who often
          drink these liquors?When a man is taken to the hospital, what
          questions does the doctor ask?Does it really help a person who uses it?Does tobacco help a boy to be a good scholar?[Illustration: _Bones of the human body._]




CHAPTER IV.[Illustration: R]IPE grapes are full of juice.This juice is mostly water, sweetened with a sugar of its own.It is
flavored with something which makes us know, the moment we taste it,
that it is grape-juice, and not cherry-juice or plum-juice.Apples also contain water, sugar, and apple flavor; and cherries contain
water, sugar, and cherry flavor.They
all, when ripe, have the water and the sugar; and each has a flavor of
its own.Ripe grapes are sometimes gathered and put into great tubs called vats.In some countries, this squeezing is done by bare-footed men who jump
into the vats and press the grapes with their feet.The grape-juice is then drawn off from the skins and seeds and left
standing in a warm place.Bubbles soon begin to rise and cover the top of it with froth.[Illustration: _Picking grapes and making wine._]

If the cook had wished to use this grape-juice to make jelly, she would
say: "Now, I can not make my grape-jelly, for the grape-juice is
spoiled."WHAT IS THIS CHANGE IN THE GRAPE-JUICE?The sugar in the grape-juice is changing into something else.It is
turning into alcohol and a gas[A] that moves about in little bubbles in
the liquid, and rising to the top, goes off into the air.The alcohol is
a thin liquid which, mixed with the water, remains in the grape-juice.The sugar is gone; alcohol and the bubbles of gas are left in its place.A little of it will harm any one who
drinks it; much of it would kill the drinker.Ripe grapes are good food; but grape-juice, when its sugar has turned to
alcohol, is not a safe drink for any one.This changed grape-juice is called wine.It is partly water, partly
alcohol, and it still has the grape flavor in it.Wine is also made from currants, elderberries, and other fruits, in very
much the same way as from grapes.People sometimes make it at home from the fruits that grow in their own
gardens, and think there is no alcohol in it, because they do not put
any in.But you know that the alcohol is made in the fruit-juice itself by the
change of the sugar into alcohol and the gas.[Illustration]

It is the nature of alcohol to make the person who takes a little of it,
in wine, or any other drink, want more and more alcohol.When one goes
on, thus taking more and more of the drinks that contain alcohol, he is
called a drunkard.In this way wine has made many drunkards.Alcohol hurts both the body
and mind.It will make a good and
kind person cruel and bad; and will make a bad person worse.Every one who takes wine does not become a drunkard, but you are not
sure that you will not, if you drink it.You should not drink wine, because there is alcohol in it.In a few hours after the juice is pressed out
of the apples, if it is left open to the air the sugar begins to change.Like the sugar in the grape, it changes into alcohol and bubbles of gas.At first, there is but little alcohol in cider, but a little of this
poison is dangerous.More alcohol is all the time forming until in ten cups of cider there
may be one cup of alcohol.Cider often makes its drinkers ill-tempered
and cross.Cider and wine will turn into vinegar if left in a warm place long
enough.What two things are in all fruit-juices?How can we tell the juice of grapes from that
          of plums?How can we tell the juice of apples from that
          of cherries?What happens after the grape-juice has stood a
          short time?Why would the changed grape-juice not be good
          to use in making jelly?Into what is the sugar in the juice changed?What does alcohol do to those who drink it?When is grape-juice not a safe drink?What is this changed grape-juice called?What do people sometimes think of home-made
          wines?How can alcohol be there when none has been
          put into it?What does alcohol make the person who takes it
          want?Are you sure you will not become a drunkard if
          you drink wine?FOOTNOTE:

[Footnote A: This gas is called car bon'ic acid gas.][Illustration: A]LCOHOL is often made from grains as well as from fruit.If the starch in your mother's starch-box at home should be changed into
sugar, you would think it a very strange thing.Every year, in the spring-time, many thousand pounds of starch are
changed into sugar in a hidden, quiet way, so that most of us think
nothing about it.If you plant them in the ground, where they are kept moist and warm,
they begin to sprout and grow, to send little roots down into the earth,
and little stems up into the sunshine.These little roots and stems must be fed with sugar; thus, in a wise
way, which is too wonderful for you to understand, as soon as the seed
begins to sprout, its starch begins to turn into sugar.[Illustration]

If you should chew two grains of wheat, one before sprouting and one
after, you could tell by the taste that this is true.Barley is a kind of grain from which the brewer makes beer.He must first turn its starch into sugar, so he begins by sprouting his
grain.Of course he does not plant it in the ground, because it would need to
be quickly dug up again.He keeps it warm and moist in a place where he can watch it, and stop
the sprouting just in time to save the sugar, before it is used to feed
the root and stem.The brewer soaks it in plenty of water, because the grain has not water
in itself, as the grape has.He puts in some yeast to help start the work of changing the sugar into
gas[B] and alcohol.Sometimes hops are also put in, to give it a bitter taste.The brewer watches to see the bubbles of gas that tell, as plainly as
words could, that sugar is going and alcohol is coming.When the work is finished, the barley has been made into beer.It might have been ground and made into barley-cakes, or into pearl
barley to thicken our soups, and then it would have been good food.Now,
it is a drink containing alcohol, and alcohol is a poison.You should not drink beer, because there is alcohol in it.Two boys of the same age begin school together.One of them drinks
wine, cider, and beer.The other never allows these drinks to pass his
lips.These boys soon become very different from each other, because one
is poisoning his body and mind with alcohol, and the other is not.A man wants a good, steady boy to work for him.Which of these two do
you think he will select?A few years later, a young man is wanted who
can be trusted with the care of an engine or a bank.Which of these young men will be more likely to get it?What is in the grain that can be turned into
          sugar?What can you do to a seed that will make its
          starch turn into sugar?What does the brewer do to the barley to make
          its starch turn into sugar?What does the brewer put into the malt to start
          the working?How does the brewer know when sugar begins to
          go and alcohol to come?Why does he want the starch turned to sugar?Why did the two boys of the same age, at the
          same school, become so unlike?FOOTNOTE:

[Footnote B: Car bon'ic acid gas.][Illustration: D]ISTILLING (d[)i]s t[)i]l[\l]'ing) may be a new word to
you, but you can easily learn its meaning.You have all seen distilling going on in the kitchen at home, many a
time.When the water in the tea-kettle is boiling, what comes out at the
nose?You can find out what it is by catching some of it on a cold plate, or
tin cover.As soon as it touches any thing cold, it turns into drops of
water.When we boil water and turn it into steam, and then turn the steam back
into water, we have distilled the water.We say vapor instead of steam,
when we talk about the boiling of alcohol.It takes less heat to turn alcohol to vapor than to turn water to
steam; so, if we put over the fire some liquid that contains alcohol,
and begin to collect the vapor as it rises, we shall get alcohol first,
and then water.But the alcohol will not be pure alcohol; it will be part water, because
it is so ready to mix with water that it has to be distilled many times
to be pure.But each time it is distilled, it will become stronger, because there is
a little more alcohol and a little less water.In this way, brandy, rum, whiskey, and gin are distilled, from wine,
cider, and the liquors which have been made from corn, rye, or barley.The cider, wine, and beer had but little alcohol in them.The brandy,
rum, whiskey, and gin are nearly one-half alcohol.A glass of strong liquor which has been made by distilling, will injure
any one more, and quicker, than a glass of cider, rum, or beer.But a cider, wine, or beer-drinker often drinks so much more of the
weaker liquor, that he gets a great deal of alcohol.People are often
made drunkards by drinking cider or beer.Where have you ever seen distilling going on?How can men separate alcohol from wine or from
          any other liquor that contains it?Which is the most harmful--the distilled
          liquor, or beer, wine, or cider?Why does the wine, cider, or beer-drinker
          often get as much alcohol?[Illustration: A]LCOHOL looks like water, but it is not at all like
water.Alcohol will take fire, and burn if a lighted match is held near it; but
you know that water will not burn.When alcohol burns, the color of the flame is blue.It does not give
much light: it makes no smoke or soot; but it does give a great deal of
heat.A little dead tree-toad was once put into a bottle of alcohol.It was
years ago, but the tree-toad is there still, looking just as it did the
first day it was put in.The tree-toad would have soon decayed if it had been
put into water.So you see that alcohol keeps dead bodies from
decaying.Pure alcohol is not often used as a drink.People who take beer, wine,
and cider get a little alcohol with each drink.Those who drink brandy,
rum, whiskey, or gin, get more alcohol, because those liquors are nearly
one half alcohol.You may wonder that people wish to use such poisonous drinks at all.It often cheats the man who takes a little, into
thinking it will be good for him to take more.Sometimes the appetite which begs so hard for the poison, is formed in
childhood.If you eat wine-jelly, or wine-sauce, you may learn to like
the taste of alcohol and thus easily begin to drink some weak liquor.The more the drinker takes, the more he often wants, and thus he goes on
from drinking cider, wine, or beer, to drinking whiskey, brandy, or rum.People who are in the habit of taking drinks which contain alcohol,
often care more for them than for any thing else, even when they know
they are being ruined by them.Why should you not eat wine-sauce or
          wine-jelly?[Illustration: A] FARMER who had been in the habit of planting his
fields with corn, wheat, and potatoes, once made up his mind to plant
tobacco instead.Let us see whether he did any good to the world by the change.The tobacco plants grew up as tall as a little boy or girl, and spread
out broad, green leaves.By and by he pulled the stalks, and dried the leaves.Some of them he
pressed into cakes of tobacco; some he rolled into cigars; and some he
ground into snuff.If you ask what tobacco is good for, the best answer will be, to tell
you what it will do to a man or boy who uses it, and then let you answer
the question for yourselves.Tobacco contains something called nicotine (n[)i]k'o t[)i]n).One drop of it is enough to kill a dog.In one cigar
there is enough, if taken pure, to kill two men.[Illustration]

Even to work upon tobacco, makes people pale and sickly.Once I went
into a snuff mill, and the man who had the care of it showed me how the
work was done.The mill stood in a pretty place, beside a little stream which turned
the mill-wheel.Tall trees bent over it, and a fresh breeze was blowing
through the open windows.Yet the smell of the tobacco was so strong
that I had to go to the door many times, for a breath of pure air.I asked the man if it did not make him sick to work there.He said: "It made me very sick for the first few weeks.Then I began to
get used to it, and now I don't mind it."He was like the boys who try to learn to smoke.It almost always makes
them sick at first; but they think it will be manly to keep on.At last,
they get used to it.The sickness is really the way in which the boy's body is trying to say
to him: "There is danger here; you are playing with poison.Let me stop
you before great harm is done."Perhaps you will say: "I have seen men smoke cigars, even four or five
in a day, and it didn't kill them."It did not kill them, because they did not swallow the nicotine.They
only drew in a little with the breath.But taking a little poison in
this way, day after day, can not be safe, or really helpful to any one.What did the farmer plant instead of corn,
          wheat, and potatoes?What is the name of the poison which is in
          tobacco?How much of it is needed to kill a dog?What harm can the nicotine in one cigar do, if
          taken pure?Tell the story of the visit to the snuff mill.Why are boys made sick by their first use of
          tobacco?Why does not smoking a cigar kill a man?[Illustration: A]LCOHOL and tobacco are called narcotics (nar
k[)o]t'iks).This means that they have the power of putting the nerves
to sleep.Opium ([=o]'p[)i] [)u]m) is another narcotic.It is a poison made from the juice of poppies, and is used in medicines.Opium is put into soothing-syrups (s[)i]r'[)u]ps), and these are
sometimes given to babies to keep them from crying.They do this by
injuring the tender nerves and poisoning the little body.How can any one give a baby opium to save taking patient care of it?Surely the mothers would not do it, if they knew that this
soothing-syrup that appears like a friend, coming to quiet and comfort
the baby, is really an enemy.[Illustration: _Don't give soothing-syrup to children._]

Sometimes, a child no older than some of you are, is left at home with
the care of a baby brother or sister; so it is best that you should know
about this dangerous enemy, and never be tempted to quiet the baby by
giving him a poison, instead of taking your best and kindest care of
him.CHAPTER X.

WHAT ARE ORGANS?[Illustration: A]N organ is a part of the body which has some special
work to do.The stomach (st[)u]m'[)a]k)
is an organ which takes care of the food we eat.[Illustration: _Different kinds of teeth._]

Your teeth do not look alike, since they must do different kinds of
work.The front ones cut, the back ones grind.They are made of a kind of bone covered with a hard smooth enamel ([)e]n
[)a]m'el).If the enamel is broken, the teeth soon decay and ache, for
each tooth is furnished with a nerve that very quickly feels pain.Cracking nuts with the teeth, or even biting thread, is apt to break the
enamel; and when once broken, you will wish in vain to have it mended.The dentist can fill a hole in the tooth; but he can not cover the tooth
with new enamel.Bits of food should be carefully picked from between the teeth with a
tooth-pick of quill or wood, never with a pin or other hard and sharp
thing which might break the enamel.Nothing but perfect cleanliness
will keep them in good order.Your
breakfast will taste all the better for it.Brush them at night before
you go to bed, lest some food should be decaying in your mouth during
the night.Take care of these cutters and grinders, that they may not decay, and so
be unable to do their work well.You have learned about the twenty-four little bones in the spine, and
the ribs that curve around from the spine to the front, or breast-bone.These bones, with the shoulder-blades and the collar-bones, form a bony
case or box.In it are some of the most useful organs of the body.This box is divided across the middle by a strong muscle, so that we may
say it is two stories high.The upper room is called the chest; the lower one, the abdomen ([)a]b
d[=o]'m[)e]n).In the chest, are the heart and the lungs.In the abdomen, are the stomach, the liver, and some other organs.The stomach is a strong bag, as wonderful a bag as could be made, you
will say, when I tell you what it can do.The outside is made of muscles; the lining prepares a juice called
gastric (g[)a]s'tr[)i]k) juice, and keeps it always ready for use.Now, what would you think if a man could put into a bag, beef, and
apples, and potatoes, and bread and milk, and sugar, and salt, tie up
the bag and lay it away on a shelf for a few hours, and then show you
that the beef had disappeared, so had the apples, so had the potatoes,
the bread and milk, sugar, and salt, and the bag was filled only with a
thin, grayish fluid?Now, your stomach and mine are just such magical bags.We put in our breakfasts, dinners, and suppers; and, after a few hours,
they are changed.The gastric juice has been mixed with them.The strong
muscles that form the outside of the stomach have been squeezing the
food, rolling it about, and mixing it together, until it has all been
changed to a thin, grayish fluid.A soldier was once shot in the side in such a way that when the wound
healed, it left an opening with a piece of loose skin over it, like a
little door leading into his stomach.A doctor who wished to learn about the stomach, hired him for a servant
and used to study him every day.He would push aside the little flap of skin and put into the stomach any
kind of food that he pleased, and then watch to see what happened to it.In this way, he learned a great deal and wrote it down, so that other
people might know, too.In other ways, also, which it would take too
long to tell you here, doctors have learned how these magical food-bags
take care of our food.WHY DOES THE FOOD NEED TO BE CHANGED?Your mamma tells you sometimes at breakfast that you must eat oat-meal
and milk to make you grow into a big man or woman.Did you ever wonder what part of you is made of oat-meal, or what part
of milk?That stout little arm does not look like oat-meal; those rosy cheeks do
not look like milk.If our food is to make stout arms and rosy cheeks, strong bodies and
busy brains, it must first be changed into a form in which it can get to
each part and feed it.When the food in the stomach is mixed and prepared, it is ready to be
sent through the body; some is carried to the bones, some to the
muscles, some to the nerves and brain, some to the skin, and some even
to the finger nails, the hair, and the eyes.Each part needs to be fed
in order to grow.WHY DO PEOPLE WHO ARE NOT GROWING NEED FOOD?Children need each day to make larger and larger bones, larger muscles,
and a larger skin to cover the larger body.Every day, each part is also wearing out a little, and needing to be
mended by some new food.People who have grown up, need their food for
this work of mending.One way to take care of the stomach is to give it only its own work to
do.I have seen some children who want to
make their poor stomachs work all the time.They are always eating
apples, or candy, or something, so that their stomachs have no chance to
rest.If the stomach does not rest, it will wear out the same as a
machine would.The stomach can not work well, unless it is quite warm.If a person
pours ice-water into his stomach as he eats, just as the food is
beginning to change into the gray fluid of which you have learned, the
work stops until the stomach gets warm again.ALCOHOL AND THE STOMACH.You remember about the man who had the little door to his stomach.Sometimes, the doctor put in wine, cider, brandy, or some drink that
contained alcohol, to see what it would do.It was carried away very
quickly; but during the little time it stayed, it did nothing but harm.It injured the gastric juice, so that it could not mix with the food.If the doctor had put in more alcohol, day after day, as one does who
drinks liquor, sores would perhaps have come on the delicate lining of
the stomach.Sometimes the stomach is so hurt by alcohol, that the
drinker dies.If the stomach can not do its work well, the whole body
must suffer from want of the good food it needs.[C]


TOBACCO AND THE MOUTH.The saliva in the mouth helps to prepare the food, before it goes into
the stomach.Tobacco makes the mouth very dry, and more saliva has to
flow out to moisten it.But tobacco juice is mixed with the saliva, and that must not be
swallowed.It must be spit out, and with it is sent the saliva that was
needed to help prepare the food.Tobacco discolors the teeth, makes bad sores in the mouth, and often
causes a disease of the throat.You can tell where some people have been, by the neatness and comfort
they leave after them.You can tell where the tobacco-user has been, by the dirty floor, and
street, and the air made unfit to breathe, because of the smoke and
strong, bad smell of old tobacco from his pipe and cigar and from his
breath and clothes.the back
          teeth?What is the upper room of this box called?the
          lower room?What do the stomach and the gastric juice do
          to the food we have eaten?How did anybody find out what the stomach
          could do?Why must all the food we eat be changed?Why do people who are not growing need food?What does alcohol do to the gastric juice?to
          the stomach?How does the habit of spitting injure a
          person?How does the tobacco-user annoy other people?FOOTNOTE:

[Footnote C: The food is partly prepared by the liver and some other
organs.]WHAT DOES THE BODY NEED FOR FOOD?[Illustration: N]OW that you know how the body is fed, you must next
learn what to feed it with; and what each part needs to make it grow and
to keep it strong and well.A large part of your body is made of water.So you need, of course, to
drink water, and to have it used in preparing your food.Water comes from the clouds, and is stored up in cisterns or in springs
in the ground.From these pipes are laid to lead the water to our
houses.Sometimes, men dig down until they reach a spring, and so make a well
from which they can pump the water, or dip it out with a bucket.Water that has been standing in lead pipes, may have some of the lead
mixed with it.Such water would be very likely to poison you, if you
drank it.Impurities are almost sure to soak into a well if it is near a drain or
a stable.If you drink the water from such a well, you may be made very sick by
it.It is better to go thirsty, until you can get good water.A sufficient quantity of pure water to drink is just as important for
us, as good food to eat.We could not drink all the water that our bodies need.We take a large
part of it in our food, in fruits and vegetables, and even in beefsteak
and bread.You remember the bone that was nothing but crumbling
lime after it had been in the fire.We can not eat lime; but the grass and the grains take it out of the
earth.Then the cows eat the grass and turn it into milk, and in the
milk we drink, we get some of the lime to feed our bones.[Illustration: _Lime being prepared for our use._]

In the same way, the grain growing in the field takes up lime and other
things that we need, but could not eat for ourselves.The lime that thus
becomes a part of the grain, we get in our bread, oat-meal porridge, and
other foods.Animals need salt, as children who live in the country know very well.They have seen how eagerly the cows and the sheep lick up the salt that
the farmer gives them.Even wild cattle and buffaloes seek out places where there are salt
springs, and go in great herds to get the salt.We, too, need some salt mixed with our food.If we did not put it in,
either when cooking, or afterward, we should still get a little in the
food itself.Muscles are lean meat, that is flesh; so muscles need flesh-making
foods.These are milk, and grains like wheat, corn and oats; also, meat
and eggs.Most of these foods really come to us out of the ground.Meat
and eggs are made from the grain, grass, and other vegetables that the
cattle and hens eat.We need cushions and wrappings of fat, here and there in our bodies, to
keep us warm and make us comfortable.So we must have certain kinds of
food that will make fat.[Illustration: _Esquimaux catching walrus._]

There are right places and wrong places for fat, as well as for other
things in this world.When alcohol puts fat into the muscles, that is
fat badly made, and in the wrong place.The good fat made for the parts of the body which need it, comes from
fat-making foods.In cold weather, we need more fatty food than we do in summer, just as
in cold countries people need such food all the time.The Esquimaux, who live in the lands of snow and ice, catch a great many
walrus and seal, and eat a great deal of fat meat.You would not be well
unless you ate some fat or butter or oil.Sugar will make fat, and so will starch, cream, rice, butter, and fat
meat.As milk will make muscle and fat and bones, it is the best kind of
food.Here, again, it is the earth that sends us our food.Fat meat
comes from animals well fed on grain and grass; sugar, from sugar-cane,
maple-trees, or beets; oil, from olive-trees; butter, from cream; and
starch, from potatoes, and from corn, rice, and other grains.Green apples and other unripe fruits are not yet ready to be eaten.The
starch which we take for food has to be changed into sugar, before it
can mix with the blood and help feed the body.As the sun ripens fruit,
it changes its starch to sugar.You can tell this by the difference in
the taste of ripe and unripe apples.Most children like candy so well, that they are in danger of eating more
sugar than is good for them.We would not need to be quite so much afraid of a little candy if it
were not for the poison with which it is often.Even what is called pure, white candy is sometimes not really such.There is a simple way by which you can find this out for yourselves.If you put a spoonful of sugar into a tumbler of water, it will all
dissolve and disappear.Put a piece of white candy into a tumbler of
water; and, if it is made of pure sugar only, it will dissolve and
disappear.If it is not, you will find at the bottom of the tumbler some white
earth.Candy-makers often put it
into candy in place of sugar, because it is cheaper than sugar.Why is it not safe to drink water that has been
          standing in lead pipes?Why is the water of a well that is near a drain
          or a stable, not fit to drink?What is said of the fat made by alcohol?How does the sun change unripe fruits?HOW FOOD BECOMES PART OF THE BODY.[Illustration: H]ERE, at last, is the bill of fare for our dinner:

          Roast beef,
          Potatoes,
          Tomatoes,
          Squash,
          Bread,
          Butter,
          Salt,
          Water,
          Peaches,
          Bananas,
          Oranges,
          Grapes.What must be done first, with the different kinds of food that are to
make up this dinner?The meat, vegetables, and bread must be cooked.Cooking prepares them to
be easily worked upon by the mouth and stomach.If they were not cooked,
this work would be very hard.Instead of going on quietly and without
letting us know any thing about it, there would be pains and aches in
the overworked stomach.The fruit is not cooked by a fire; but we might almost say the sun had
cooked it, for the sun has ripened and sweetened it.When you are older, some of you may have charge of the cooking in your
homes.You must then remember that food well cooked is worth twice as
much as food poorly cooked."A good cook has more to do with the health of the family, than a good
doctor."As soon as we begin to chew our food, a juice in the mouth, called
saliva (sa l[=i]'va), moistens and mixes with it.Saliva has the wonderful power of turning starch into sugar; and the
starch in our food needs to be turned into sugar, before it can be taken
into the blood.You can prove for yourselves that saliva can turn starch into sugar.Chew slowly a piece of dry cracker.The cracker is made mostly of
starch, because wheat is full of starch.At first, the cracker is dry
and tasteless.Soon, however, you find it tastes sweet; the saliva is
changing the starch into sugar.All your food should be eaten slowly and chewed well, so that the saliva
may be able to mix with it.Otherwise, the starch may not be changed;
and if one part of your body neglects its work, another part will have
more than its share to do.If you swallow your food in a hurry and do not let the saliva do its
work, the stomach will have extra work.But it will find it hard to do
more than its own part, and, perhaps, will complain.It can not speak in words; but will by aching, and that is almost as
plain as words.One is to the lungs, for
breathing; the other, to the stomach, for swallowing.Do you wonder why the food does not sometimes go down the wrong way?The windpipe leading to the lungs is in front of the other tube.It has
at its top a little trap-door.This opens when we breathe and shuts when
we swallow, so that the food slips over it safely into the passage
behind, which leads to the stomach.If you try to speak while you have food in your mouth, this little door
has to open, and some bit of food may slip in.The windpipe will not
pass it to the lungs, but tries to force it back.Then we say the food
chokes us.If the windpipe can not succeed in forcing back the food, the
person will die.HOW THE FOOD IS CARRIED THROUGH THE BODY.But we will suppose that the food of our dinner has gone safely down
into the stomach.There the stomach works it over, and mixes in gastric
juice, until it is all a gray fluid.Now it is ready to go into the intestines,--a long, coiled tube which
leads out of the stomach,--from which the prepared food is taken into
the blood.The heart pumps it out with the blood
into the lungs, and then all through the body, to make bone, and muscle,
and skin, and hair, and eyes, and brain.Besides feeding all these parts, this dinner can help to mend any parts
that may be broken.Suppose a boy should break one of the bones of his arm, how could it be
mended?If you should bind together the two parts of a broken stick and leave
them a while, do you think they would grow together?But the doctor could carefully bind together the ends of the broken bone
in the boy's arm and leave it for awhile, and the blood would bring it
bone food every day, until it had grown together again.So a dinner can both make and mend the different parts of the body.What is the first thing to do to our food?What is the first thing to do after taking the
          food into your mouth?How can you prove that saliva turns starch into
          sugar?What happens if the food is not chewed and
          mixed with the saliva?What must you be careful about, when you are
          swallowing?What happens to the food after it is
          swallowed?What carries the food to every part of the
          body?[Illustration: H]ERE are the names of some of the different kinds of
food.If you write them on the blackboard or on your slates, it will
help you to remember them._Water._ _Salt._ _Lime._

          Meat,  }                 Sugar,  }
          Milk,  }                 Starch, }
          Eggs,  }                 Fat,    } for fat and heat.Cream,  }
          Corn,  }                 Oil,    }
          Oats,  }

Perhaps some of you noticed that we had no wine, beer, nor any drink
that had alcohol in it, on our bill of fare for dinner.We had no
cigars, either, to be smoked after dinner.If these are good things, we
ought to have had them._We should eat in order to grow strong and keep
          strong._


STRENGTH OF BODY.If you wanted to measure your strength, one way of doing so would be to
fasten a heavy weight to one end of a rope and pass the rope over a
pulley.Then you might take hold at the other end of the rope and pull
as hard and steadily as you could, marking the place to which you raised
the weight.By trying this once a week, or once a month, you could tell
by the marks, whether you were gaining strength.We must exercise in the open air, and take pure air into our lungs to
help purify our blood, and plenty of exercise to make our muscles grow.We must eat good and simple food, that the blood may have supplies to
take to every part of the body.People used to think that alcohol made them strong.Can alcohol make good muscles, or bone, or nerve, or brain?If it can not make muscles, nor bone nor nerve, nor brain, it can not
give you any strength.Some people may tell you that drinking beer will make you strong.The grain from which the beer is made, would have given you strength.If
you should measure your strength before and after drinking beer, you
would find that you had not gained any.Most of the food part of the
grain has been turned into alcohol.The juice of crushed apples, you know, is called cider.As soon as the
cider begins to turn sour, or "hard," as people say, alcohol begins to
form in it.Pure water is good, and apples are good.But the apple-juice begins to
be a poison as soon as there is the least drop of alcohol in it.In
cider-making, the alcohol forms in the juice, you know, in a few hours
after it is pressed out of the apples.None of the drinks in which there is alcohol, can give you real
strength.Because alcohol puts the nerves to sleep, they can not, truly, tell the
brain how hard the work is, or how heavy the weight to be lifted.The alcohol has in this way cheated men into thinking they can do more
than they really can.This false feeling of strength lasts only a little
while.When it has passed, men feel weaker than before.A story which shows that alcohol does not give strength, was told me by
the captain of a ship, who sailed to China and other distant places.Many years ago, when people thought a little alcohol was good, it was
the custom to carry in every ship, a great deal of rum.This liquor is
distilled from molasses and contains about one half alcohol.This rum
was given to the sailors every day to drink; and, if there was a great
storm, and they had very hard work to do, it was the custom to give
them twice as much rum as usual.[Illustration]

The captain watched his men and saw that they were really made no
stronger by drinking the rum; but that, after a little while, they felt
weaker.So he determined to go to sea with no rum in his ship.Once out
on the ocean, of course the men could not get any.At first, they did not like it; but the captain was very careful to have
their food good and plentiful; and, when a storm came, and they were wet
and cold and tired, he gave them hot coffee to drink.By the time they
had crossed the ocean, the men said: "The captain is right.We have
worked better, and we feel stronger, for going without the rum."We have been talking about the strength of muscles; but the very best
kind of strength we have is brain strength, or strength of mind.Alcohol makes the head ache and deadens the nerves, so that they can
not carry their messages correctly.Some people have little or no money, and no houses or lands; but every
person ought to own a body and a mind that can work for him, and make
him useful and happy.Suppose you have a strong, healthy body, hands that are well-trained to
work, and a clear, thinking brain to be master of the whole.Would you
be willing to change places with a man whose body and mind had been
poisoned by alcohol, tobacco, and opium, even though he lived in a
palace, and had a million of dollars?If you want a mind that can study, understand, and think well, do not
let alcohol and tobacco have a chance to reach it.What things were left out of our bill of fare?Show why drinking wine or any other alcoholic
          drink will not make you strong.Why do people imagine that they feel strong
          after taking these drinks?Tell the story which shows that alcohol does
          not help sailors do their work.What is the best kind of strength to have?How does alcohol affect the strength of the
          mind?[Illustration: T]HE heart is in the chest, the upper part of the strong
box which the ribs, spine, shoulder-blades, and collar-bones make for
each of us.It is made of very thick, strong muscles, as you can see by looking at a
beef's heart, which is much like a man's, but larger.Probably some of you have seen a fire-engine throwing a stream of water
through a hose upon a burning building.As the engine forces the water through the hose, so the heart, by the
working of its strong muscles, pumps the blood through tubes, shaped
like hose, which lead by thousands of little branches all through the
body.These tubes are called arteries (aer't[)e]r iz).Those tubes which bring the blood back again to the heart, are called
veins (v[=a]nz).You can see some of the smaller veins in your wrist.If you press your finger upon an artery in your wrist, you can feel the
steady beating of the pulse.This tells just how fast the heart is
pumping and the blood flowing.The doctor feels your pulse when you are sick, to find out whether the
heart is working too fast, or too slowly, or just right.Some way is needed to send the gray fluid that is made from the food we
eat and drink, to every part of the body.To send the food with the blood is a sure way of making it reach every
part.So, when the stomach has prepared the food, the blood takes it up and
carries it to every part of the body.It then leaves with each part,
just what it needs.As the brain has so much work to attend to, it must have very pure, good
blood sent to it, to keep it strong.It can not be good if it has been poisoned with alcohol or tobacco.We must also remember that the brain needs a great deal of blood.If we
take alcohol into our blood, much of it goes to the brain.There it
affects the nerves, and makes a man lose control over his actions.When you run, you can feel your heart beating.It gets an instant of
rest between the beats.Good exercise in the fresh air makes the heart work well and warms the
body better than a fire could do.DOES ALCOHOL DO ANY HARM TO THE HEART?You know what harm alcohol does to the
muscles.Could a fatty heart work as well as a muscular heart?No more than a
fatty arm could do the work of a muscular arm.Besides, alcohol makes
the heart beat too fast, and so it gets too tired.How does the food we eat reach all parts of the
          body?How does alcohol in the blood affect the brain?How does exercise in the fresh air help the
          heart?[Illustration: T]HE blood flows all through the body, carrying good food
to every part.It also gathers up from every part the worn-out matter
that can no longer be used.By the time it is ready to be sent back by
the veins, the blood is no longer pure and red.It is dull and bluish in
color, because it is full of impurities.If you look at the veins in your wrist, you will see that they look
blue.If all this bad blood goes back to the heart, will the heart have to
pump out bad blood next time?No, for the heart has neighbors very near
at hand, ready to change the bad blood to pure, red blood again.They are in the chest on each side of
the heart.When you breathe, their little air-cells swell out, or
expand, to take in the air.Then they contract again, and the air passes
out through your mouth or nose.The lungs must have plenty of fresh air,
and plenty of room to work in.[Illustration: _The lungs, heart, and air-passages._]

If your clothes are too tight and the lungs do not have room to expand,
they can not take in so much air as they should.Then the blood can not
be made pure, and the whole body will suffer.For every good breath of fresh air, the lungs take in, they send out one
of impure air.In this way, by taking out what is bad, they prepare the blood to go
back to the heart pure and red, and to be pumped out through the body
again.How the lungs can use the fresh air for doing this good work, you can
not yet understand.By and by, when you are older, you will learn more
about it.You never stop breathing, not even in the night.But if you watch your
own breathing you will notice a little pause between the breaths.But the lungs are very steady workers, both by night
and by day.The least we can do for them, is to give them fresh air and
plenty of room to work in.You may say: "We can't give them more room than they have.I have seen people who wore such tight clothes that their lungs did not
have room to take a full breath.If any part of the lungs can not
expand, it will become useless.If your lungs can not take in air enough
to purify the blood, you can not be so well and strong as God intended,
and your life will be shortened.If some one was sewing for you, you would not think of shutting her up
in a little place where she could not move her hands freely.The lungs
are breathing for you, and need room enough to do their work.The lungs breathe out the waste matter that they have taken from the
blood.If we should close all the
doors and windows, and the fireplace or opening into the chimney, and
leave not even a crack by which the fresh air could come in, we would
die simply from staying in such a room.The lungs could not do their
work for the blood, and the blood could not do its work for the body.If your head
aches, and you feel dull and sleepy from being in a close room, a run in
the fresh air will make you feel better.The good, pure air makes your blood pure; and the blood then flows
quickly through your whole body and refreshes every part.We must be careful not to stay in close rooms in the day-time, nor sleep
in close rooms at night.We must not keep out the fresh air that our
bodies so much need.It is better to breathe through the nose than through the mouth.You can
soon learn to do so, if you try to keep your mouth shut when walking or
running.If you keep the mouth shut and breathe through the nose, the little
hairs on the inside of the nose will catch the dust or other impurities
that are floating in the air, and so save their going to the lungs.You
will get out of breath less quickly when running if you keep your mouth
shut.DOES ALCOHOL DO ANY HARM TO THE LUNGS?The little air-cells of the lungs have very delicate muscular (m[)u]s'ku
lar) walls.Every time we breathe, these walls have to move.The muscles
of the chest must also move, as you can all notice in yourselves, as you
breathe.All this muscular work, as well as that of the stomach and heart, is
directed by the nerves.You have learned already what alcohol will do to muscles and nerves, so
you are ready to answer for stomach, for heart, and for lungs.Besides carrying food all over the body, what
          other work does the blood do?Why does the blood in the veins look blue?Where is the blood made pure and red again?What must the lungs have in order to do this
          work?How does the air in a room become spoiled?Why is it better to breathe through the nose
          than through the mouth?[Illustration: T]HERE is another part of your body carrying away waste
matter all the time--it is the skin.It is also lined with a more delicate
kind of skin.You can see where the outside skin and the lining skin
meet at your lips.There is a thin outside layer of skin which we can pull off without
hurting ourselves; but I advise you not to do so.Because under the
outside skin is the true skin, which is so full of little nerves that it
will feel the least touch as pain.When the outer skin, which protects
it, is torn away, we must cover the true skin to keep it from harm.In hot weather, or when any one has been working or playing hard, the
face, and sometimes the whole body, is covered with little drops of
water.We call these drops perspiration (p[~e]r sp[)i] r[=a]'sh[)u]n).[Illustration: _Perspiratory tube._]

Where does it come from?It comes through many tiny holes in the skin,
called pores (p[=o]rz).Every pore is the mouth of a tiny tube which is
carrying off waste matter and water from your body.If you could piece
together all these little perspiration tubes that are in the skin of one
person, they would make a line more than three miles long.Sometimes, you can not see the perspiration, because there is not enough
of it to form drops.But it is always coming out through your skin, both
in winter and summer.Your body is kept healthy by having its worn-out
matter carried off in this way, as well as in other ways.The finger nails are little shields to protect the ends of your fingers
from getting hurt.These finger ends are full of tiny nerves, and would
be badly off without such shields.No one likes to see nails that have
been bitten.Waste matter is all the time passing out through the perspiration tubes
in the skin.This waste matter must not be left to clog up the little
openings of the tubes.It should be washed off with soap and water.When children have been playing out-of-doors, they often have very dirty
hands and faces.Any one can see, then, that they need to be washed.But
even if they had been in the cleanest place all day and had not touched
any thing dirty, they would still need the washing; for the waste matter
that comes from the inside of the body is just as hurtful as the mud or
dust of the street.You do not see it so plainly, because it comes out
very little at a time.Wash it off well, and your skin will be fresh and
healthy, and able to do its work.If the skin could not do its work, you
would die.Do not keep on your rubber boots or shoes all through school-time.Rubber will not let the perspiration pass off, so the little pores get
clogged and your feet begin to feel uncomfortable, or your head may
ache.No part can fail to do its work without causing trouble to the
rest of the body.But you should always wear rubbers out-of-doors when
the ground is wet.When you are out in the fresh air, you are giving the other parts of
your body such a good chance to perspire, that your feet can bear a
little shutting up.But as soon as you come into the house, take the
rubbers off.Now that you know what the skin is doing all the time, you will
understand that the clothes worn next to your skin are full of little
worn-out particles, brought out by the perspiration.When these clothes
are taken off at night, they should be so spread out, that they will
air well before morning.Never wear any of the clothes through the
night, that you have worn during the day.Do not roll up your night-dress in the morning and put it under your
pillow.Give it first a good airing at the window and then hang it where
the air can reach it all day.By so doing, you will have sweeter sleep
at night.You are old enough to throw the bed-clothes off from the bed, before
leaving your rooms in the morning.In this way, the bed and bed-clothes
may have a good airing.Be sure to give them time enough for this.You have now learned about four important kinds of work:--

1st.The stomach prepares the food for the blood to take.The blood is pumped out of the heart to carry food to every part of
the body, and to take away worn-out matter.The lungs use fresh air in making the dark, impure blood, bright and
pure again.The skin carries away waste matter through the little perspiration
tubes.All this work goes on, day and night, without our needing to think about
it at all; for messages are sent to the muscles by the nerves which keep
them faithfully at work, whether we know it or not.What is the common name
          for it?How does the perspiration help to keep you
          well?Why should you not wear rubber boots or
          overshoes in the house?Why should you change under-clothing night and
          morning?Where should the night-dress be placed in the
          morning?What should be done with the bed-clothes?Name the four kinds of work about which you
          have learned.How are the organs of the body kept at work?[Illustration: W]E have five ways of learning about all things around
us.We can see them, touch them, taste them, smell them, or hear them.Sight, touch, taste, smell, and hearing, are called the five senses.You already know something about them, for you are using them all the
time.In this lesson, you will learn a little more about seeing and hearing.In the middle of your eye is a round, black spot, called the pupil.This
pupil is only a hole with a muscle around it.When you are in the light,
the muscle draws up, and makes the pupil small, because you can get all
the light you need through a small opening.When you are in the dark,
the muscle stretches, and opens the pupil wide to let in more light.The pupils of the cat's eyes are very large in the dark.They want all
the light they can get, to see if there are any mice about.[Illustration: _The eyelashes and the tear-glands._]

The pupil of the eye opens into a little, round room where the nerve of
sight is.This is a safe place for this delicate nerve, which can not
bear too much light.It carries to the brain an account of every thing
we see.We might say the eye is taking pictures for us all day long, and that
the nerve of sight is describing these pictures to the brain.The nerves of sight need great care, for they are very delicate.Do not face a bright light when you are reading or studying.While
writing, you should sit so that the light will come from the left side;
then the shadow of your hand will not fall upon your work.One or two true stories may help you to remember that you must take good
care of your eyes.The nerve of sight can not bear too bright a light.It asks to have the
pupil made small, and even the eyelid curtains put down, when the light
is too strong.Once, there was a boy who said boastfully to his playmates: "Let us see
which of us can look straight at the sun for the longest time."Then they foolishly began to look at the sun.The delicate nerves of
sight felt a sharp pain, and begged to have the pupils made as small as
possible and the eyelid curtains put down.They were trying to see which would bear
it the longest.Great harm was done to the brains as well as eyes of
both these boys.The one who looked longest at the sun died in
consequence of his foolish act.The second story is about a little boy who tried to turn his eyes to
imitate a schoolmate who was cross-eyed.He turned them; but he could
not turn them back again.Although he is now a gentleman more than fifty
years old and has had much painful work done upon his eyes, the doctors
have never been able to set them quite right.You see from the first story, that you must be careful not to give your
eyes too much light.But you must also be sure to give them light
enough.When one tries to read in the twilight, the little nerve of sight says:
"Give me more light; I am hurt, by trying to see in the dark."If you should kill these delicate nerves, no others would ever grow in
place of them, and you would never be able to see again.What you call your ears are only pieces of gristle, so curved as to
catch the sounds and pass them along to the true ears.These are deeper
in the head, where the nerve of hearing is waiting to send an account
of each sound to the brain.The ear nerve is in less danger than that of the eye.Careless children
sometimes put pins into their ears and so break the "drum."That is a
very bad thing to do.Use only a soft towel in washing your ears.You
should never put any thing hard or sharp into them.I must tell you a short ear story, about my father, when he was a small
boy.One day, when playing on the floor, he laid his ear to the crack of the
door, to feel the wind blow into it.He was so young that he did not
know it was wrong; but the next day he had the earache severely.Although he lived to be an old man, he often had the earache.He thought
it began from the time when the wind blew into his ear from under that
door.ALCOHOL AND THE SENSES.All this fine work of touching, tasting, seeing, smelling, and hearing,
is nerve work.The man who is in the habit of using alcoholic drinks can not touch,
taste, see, smell, or hear so well as he ought.His hands tremble, his
speech is sometimes thick, and often he can not walk straight.Sometimes, he thinks he sees things when he does not, because his poor
nerves are so confused by alcohol that they can not do their work.Answer now for your taste, smell, and touch, and also for your sight and
hearing; should their beautiful work be spoiled by alcohol?Where should the light be for reading or
          studying?Tell the story of the boys who looked at the
          sun.Tell the story of the boy who made himself
          cross-eyed.What would be the result, if you should kill
          the nerves of sight?Tell the story of the boy who injured his ear.How is the work of the senses affected by
          drinking liquor?"[Illustration: M]Y thick, warm clothes make me warm," says some child.Take a brisk run, and your blood will flow faster and you will be warm
very quickly.On a cold day, the teamster claps his hands and swings his arms to make
his blood flow quickly and warm him.Every child knows that he is warm inside; for if his fingers are cold,
he puts them into his mouth to warm them.If you should put a little thermometer into your mouth, or under your
tongue, the mercury (m[~e]r'ku r[)y]) would rise as high as it does out
of doors on a hot, summer day.This would be the same in summer or winter, in a warm country or a cold
one, if you were well and the work of your body was going on steadily.Some of the work which is all the time going on inside your body, makes
this heat.The blood is thus warmed, and then it carries the heat to every part of
the body.The faster the blood flows, the more heat it brings, and the
warmer we feel.In children, the heart pumps from eighty to ninety times a minute.This is faster than it works in old people, and this is one reason why
children are generally much warmer than old people.You may breathe in cold air; but that which you breathe out is warm.A
great deal of heat from your warm body is all the time passing off
through your skin, into the cooler air about you.For this reason, a
room full of people is much warmer than the same room when empty.We put on clothes to keep in the heat which we already have, and to
prevent the cold air from reaching our skins and carrying off too much
heat in that way.Most of you children are too young to choose what clothes you will wear.You know, however, that woolen under-garments
keep you warm in winter, and that thick boots and stockings should be
worn in cold weather.Thin dresses or boots may look pretty; but they
are not safe for winter wear, even at a party.A healthy, happy child, dressed in clothes which are suitable for the
season, is pleasanter to look at than one whose dress, though rich and
handsome, is not warm enough for health or comfort.When you feel cold, take exercise, if possible.This will make the hot
blood flow all through your body and warm it.If you can not, you should
put on more clothes, go to a warm room, in some way get warm and keep
warm, or the cold will make you sick.If your skin is chilled, the tiny mouths of the perspiration tubes are
sometimes closed and can not throw out the waste matter.Then, if one
part fails to do its work, other parts must suffer.Perhaps the inside
skin becomes inflamed, or the throat and lungs, and you have a cold, or
a cough.People used to think that nothing would warm one so well on a cold day,
as a glass of whiskey, or other alcoholic drink.It is true that, if a person drinks a little alcohol, he will feel a
burning in the throat, and presently a glowing heat on the skin.The alcohol has made the hot blood rush into the tiny tubes near the
skin, and he thinks it has warmed him.But if all this heat comes to the skin, the cold air has a chance to
carry away more than usual.In a very little time, the drinker will be
colder than before.Perhaps he will not know it; for the cheating
alcohol will have deadened his nerves so that they send no message to
the brain.Then he may not have sense enough to put on more clothing and
may freeze.He may even, if it is very cold, freeze to death.People, who have not been drinking alcohol are sometimes frozen; but
they would have frozen much quicker if they had drunk it.Horse-car drivers and omnibus drivers have a hard time on a cold winter
day.They are often cheated into thinking that alcohol will keep them
warm; but doctors have learned that it is the water-drinkers who hold
out best against the cold.Alcohol can not really keep a person warm.All children are interested in stories about Arctic explorers, whose
ships get frozen into great ice-fields, who travel on sledges drawn by
dogs, and sometimes live in Esquimau huts, and drink oil, and eat walrus
meat.These men tell us that alcohol will not keep them warm, and you know
why.The hunters and trappers in the snowy regions of the Rocky Mountains say
the same thing.Alcohol not only can not keep them warm; but it lessens
their power to resist cold.[Illustration: _Scene in the Arctic regions._]

Many of you have heard about the Greely party who were brought home from
the Arctic seas, after they had been starving and freezing for many
months.Seven were
found alive by their rescuers; one of these died soon afterward.The
first man who died, was the only one of the party who had ever been a
drunkard.Of the nineteen who died, all but one used tobacco.Of the six now
living,--four never used tobacco at all; and the other two, very seldom.The tobacco was no real help to them in time of trouble.It had probably
weakened their stomachs, so that they could not make the best use of
such poor food as they had.Why do you wear thick clothes in cold weather?How can you prove that you are warm inside?How can you warm yourself without going to the
          fire?How does it cheat you into thinking that you
          will be warmer for drinking it?What do the people who travel in very cold
          countries, tell us about the use of alcohol?How did tobacco affect the men who went to the
          Arctic seas with Lieutenant Greely?[Illustration: N]OW that you have learned about your bodies, and what
alcohol will do to them, you ought also to know that alcohol costs a
great deal of money.Money spent for that which will do no good, but
only harm, is certainly wasted, and worse than wasted.If a boy or a girl save ten cents a week, it will take ten weeks to save
a dollar.You can all think of many good and pleasant ways to spend a dollar.What
would the beer-drinker do with it?If he takes two mugs of beer a day,
the dollar will be used up in ten days.But we ought not to say used,
because that word will make us think it was spent usefully.We will say,
instead, the dollar will be wasted, in ten days.If he spends it for wine or whiskey, it will go sooner, as these cost
more.If no money was spent for liquor in this country, people would not
so often be sick, or poor, or bad, or wretched.We should not need so
many policemen, and jails, and prisons, as we have now.If no liquor was
drunk, men, women, and children would be better and happier.Most of you have a little money of your own.Perhaps you earned a part,
or the whole of it, yourselves.You are planning what to do with it, and
that is a very pleasant kind of planning.Do you think it would be wise to make a dollar bill into a tight little
roll, light one end of it with a match, and then let it slowly burn up?(_See Frontispiece._)

Yes!It would be worse than wasted,
if, while burning, it should also hurt the person who held it.If you
should buy cigars or tobacco with your dollar, and smoke them, you could
soon burn up the dollar and hurt yourselves besides.Then, when you begin to have some idea how much six
hundred millions is, remember that six hundred million dollars are spent
in this country every year for tobacco--burned up--wasted--worse than
wasted.Do you think the farmer who planted tobacco instead of corn, did any
good to the world by the change?How does the liquor-drinker spend his money?What could we do, if no money was spent for
          liquor?Tell two ways in which you could burn up a
          dollar bill.How much money is spent for tobacco, yearly, in
          this country?*       *       *       *       *

Transcriber's Notes:

This book contains pronunciation codes.These are indicated in the text
by the following

          breve: [)i]
          macron: [=i]
          tilde: [~i]
          slash through the letter: [\l]

Obvious punctuation errors repaired.Whether I succeed in being
     heard or not is not in my hands.I protest, however, at being
     regarded as one who wishes for war in any country, still less in
     China.Inclined as I am, with only a small degree of admiration
     for military exploits, I esteem it a far greater honour to
     promote peace than to gain any paltry honours in a wretched war."With that message to his official superiors, as well as to the world,
Gordon left Bombay on 13th June.His message of the day before saying,
"Consult Campbell," had induced the authorities at the Horse Guards to
make inquiries of that gentleman, who had no difficulty in satisfying
them that the course of events was exactly as has here been set forth,
and coupling that with Gordon's own declaration that he was for peace
not war, permission was granted to Gordon to do that which at all cost
he had determined to do.When he reached Ceylon he found this
telegram: "Leave granted on your engaging to take no military service
in China," and he somewhat too comprehensively, and it may even be
feared rashly if events had turned out otherwise, replied: "I will
take no military service in China: I would never embarrass the British
Government."Having thus got clear of the difficulties which beset him on the
threshold of his mission, Gordon had to prepare himself for those that
were inherent to the task he had taken up.He knew of old how averse
the Chinese are to take advice from any one, how they waste time in
fathoming motives, and how when they say a thing shall be done it is
never performed.Yet the memory of his former disinterested and
splendid service afforded a guarantee that if they would take advice
and listen to unflattering criticism from any one, that man was
Gordon.Still, from the most favourable point of view, the mission was
fraught with difficulty, and circumstances over which he had no
control, and of which he was even ignorant, added immensely to it.There is no doubt that Peking was at that moment the centre of
intrigues, not only between the different Chinese leaders, but also
among the representatives of the Foreign Powers.The secret history of
these transactions has still to be revealed, and as our Foreign Office
never gives up the private instructions it transmits to its
representatives, the full truth may never be recorded.But so far as
the British Government was concerned, its action was limited to giving
the Minister, Sir Thomas Wade, instructions to muzzle Gordon and
prevent his doing anything that wasn't strictly in accordance with
official etiquette and quite safe, or, in a word, to make him do
nothing.The late Sir Thomas Wade was a most excellent Chinese scholar
and estimable person in every way, but when he tried to do what the
British Government and the whole arrayed body of the Horse Guards,
from the Commander-in-Chief down to the Deputy-Adjutant General, had
failed to do, viz.to keep Gordon in leading strings, he egregiously
failed.Sir Thomas Wade went so far as to order Gordon to stay in the
British Legation, and to visit no one without his express permission.Gordon's reply was to ignore the British Legation and to never enter
its portals during the whole of his stay in China.That was one difficulty in the situation apart from the Russian
question, but it was not the greatest, and as it was the first
occasion on which European politics re-acted in a marked way on the
situation in China, such details as are ascertainable are well worth
recording at some length.There is no doubt that the Russian Government was very much disturbed
at what seemed an inevitable hostile collision with China.The
uncertain result of such a contest along an enormous land-frontier,
with which, at that time, Russia had very imperfect means of
communication, was the least cause of its disquietude.A war with
China signified to Russia something much more serious than this, viz.,
a breach of the policy of friendship to its vast neighbour, which it
had consistently pursued for two centuries, and which it will pursue
until it is ready to absorb, and then in the same friendly guise, its
share of China.Under these circumstances the Russian Government
looked round for every means of averting the catastrophe.It is
necessary to guard oneself from seeming to imply that Russia was in
any sense afraid, or doubtful as to the result of a war with China;
her sole motives were those of astute and far-seeing policy.Whether
the Russian Ambassador at Berlin mooted the matter to Prince
Bismarck, or whether that statesman, without inspiration, saw his
chance of doing Russia a good turn at no cost to himself is not
certain, but instructions were sent to Herr von Brandt, the German
Minister at Peking, a man of great energy, and in favour of bold
measures, to support the Peace Party in every way.He was exactly a
man after Prince Bismarck's own heart, prepared to go to any lengths
to attain his object, and fully persuaded that the end justifies the
means.Li Hung Chang, the
only prominent advocate of peace, was to rebel, march on Peking with
his Black Flag army, and establish a Government of his own.There is
no doubt whatever that this scheme was formed and impressed on Li Hung
Chang as the acme of wisdom.More than that, it was supported by two
other Foreign Ministers at Peking, with greater or less warmth, and
one of them was Sir Thomas Wade.These plots were dispelled by the
sound sense and candid but firm representations of Gordon.But for
him, as will be seen, there would have been a rebellion in the
country, and Li Hung Chang would now be either Emperor of China or a
mere instance of a subject who had lost his head in trying to be
supreme.Having thus explained the situation that awaited Gordon, it is
necessary to briefly trace his movements after leaving Ceylon.He
reached Hongkong on 2nd July, and not only stayed there for a day or
two as the guest of the Governor, Sir T. Pope Hennessey, but found
sufficient time to pay a flying visit to the Chinese city of Canton.Thence he proceeded to Shanghai and Chefoo.At the latter place he
found news, which opened his eyes to part of the situation, in a
letter from Sir Robert Hart, begging him to come direct to him at
Peking, and not to stop _en route_ to visit Li Hung Chang at Tientsin.As has been explained, Gordon went to China in the full belief that,
whatever names were used, it was his old colleague Li Hung Chang who
sent for him, and the very first definite information he received on
approaching the Chinese capital was that not Li, but persons whom by
inference were inimical to Li, had sent for him.The first question
that arises then was who was the real author of the invitation to
Gordon that bore the name of Hart.It cannot be answered, for Gordon
assured me that he himself did not know; but there is no doubt that it
formed part of the plot and counter-plot originated by the German
Minister, and responded to by those who were resolved, in the event of
Li's rebellion, to uphold the Dragon Throne.Sir Robert Hart is a man
of long-proved ability and address, who has rendered the Chinese
almost as signal service as did Gordon himself, and on this occasion
he was actuated by the highest possible motives, but it must be
recorded that his letter led to a temporary estrangement between
himself and Gordon, who I am happy to be able to state positively did
realise long afterwards that he and Hart were fighting in the same
camp, and had the same objects in view--only this was not apparent at
the time.Gordon went to China only because he thought Li Hung Chang
sent for him, but when he found that powerful persons were inciting
him to revolt, he became the first and most strenuous in his advice
against so imprudent and unpatriotic a measure.Sir Robert Hart knew
exactly what was being done by the German Minister.He wished to save
Gordon from being drawn into a dangerous and discreditable plot, and
also in the extreme eventuality to deprive any rebellion of the
support of Gordon's military genius.But without this perfect information, and for the best, as in the end
it proved, Gordon, hot with disappointment that the original summons
was not from Li Hung Chang, went straight to that statesman's yamen at
Tientsin, ignored Hart, and proclaimed that he had come as the friend
of the only man who had given any sign of an inclination to regenerate
China.He resided as long as he was in Northern China with Li Hung
Chang, whom he found being goaded towards high treason by persons who
had no regard for China's interests, and who thought only of the
attainment of their own selfish designs.The German Minister, thinking
that he had obtained an ally who would render the success of his own
plan certain, proposed that Gordon should put himself at the head of
Li's army, march on Peking, and depose the Emperor.Gordon's droll
comment on this is: "I told him I was equal to a good deal of
filibustering, but that this was beyond me, and that I did not think
there was the slightest chance of such a project succeeding, as Li had
not a sufficient following to give it any chance of success."He
recorded his views of the situation in the following note: "The only
thing that keeps me in China is Li Hung Chang's safety--if he were
safe I would not care--but some people are egging him on to rebel,
some to this, and some to that, and all appears in a helpless drift.There are parties at Peking who would drive the Chinese into war for
their own ends."Having measured the position and found it bristling
with unexpected difficulties and dangers, Gordon at once regretted the
promise he had given his own Government in the message from Ceylon.He
thought it was above all things necessary for him to have a free hand,
and he consequently sent the following telegram to the Horse Guards:
"I have seen Li Hung Chang, and he wishes me to stay with him.I
cannot desert China in her present crisis, and would be free to act
as I think fit.I therefore beg to resign my commission in Her
Majesty's Service."Having thus relieved, as he thought, his
Government of all responsibility for his acts--although they responded
to this message by accusing him of insubordination, and by instructing
Sir Thomas Wade to place him under moral arrest--Gordon threw himself
into the China difficulty with his usual ardour.Nothing more remained
to be done at Tientsin, where he had effectually checked the
pernicious counsel pressed on Li Hung Chang most strongly by the
German Minister, and in a minor degree by the representatives of
France and England.In order to influence the Central Government it
was necessary for him to proceed to Peking, and the following
unpublished letter graphically describes his views at the particular
moment:--

     "I am on my way to Peking.There are three parties--Li Hung Chang
     (1), the Court (2), the Literary Class (3).The two first are for
     peace, but dare not say it for fear of the third party.I have
     told Li that he, in alliance with the Court, must coerce the
     third party, and have written this to Li and to the Court Party.By so doing I put my head in jeopardy in going to Peking.I do
     not wish Li to act alone.It is not good he should do anything
     except support the Court Party morally.God will overrule for the
     best.If neither the Court Party nor Li can act, if these two
     remain and let things drift, then there will be a disastrous war,
     of which I shall not see the end.Having given up my commission, I have nothing to look for, and
     indeed I long for the quiet of the future.... If the third party
     hear of my recommendation before the Court Party acts, then I may
     be doomed to a quick exit at Peking.Li Hung Chang is a noble
     fellow, and worth giving one's life for; but he must not rebel
     and lose his good name.It is a sort of general election which is
     going on, but where heads are in gage."Writing to me some months later, General Gordon entered into various
matters relating to this period, and as the letter indirectly throws
light on what may be called the Li Hung Chang episode, I quote it
here, although somewhat out of its proper place:--

     "Thanks for your kind note.I send you the two papers which were
     made public in China, and through the Shen-pao some of it was
     sent over.Another paper of fifty-two articles I gave Li Hung
     Chang, but I purposely kept no copy of it, for it went into--

     "1.The contraband of salt and opium at Hongkong.The advantages of telegraphs and canals, not railways, which
     have ruined Egypt and Turkey by adding to the financial
     difficulties.The effeteness of the Chinese representatives abroad, etc.,
     etc., etc."I wrote as a Chinaman for the Chinese.I recommended Chinese
     merchants to do away with middle-men, and to have Government aid
     and encouragement to create houses or firms in London, etc.; to
     make their own cotton goods, etc.In fact, I wrote as a Chinaman.I see now and then symptoms that they are awake to the situation,
     for my object has been always to put myself into the skin of
     those I may be with, and I like these people as much--well, say
     nearly as much--as I like my countrymen."There are a lot of people in China who would egg on revolts of A
     and B. All this is wrong.I painted this
     picture to the Chinese of 1900: 'Who are those people hanging
     about with jinrickshas?''The Hongs of the European merchants,'
     etc., etc."People have asked me what I thought of the advance of China
     during the sixteen years I was absent.They looked superficially
     at the power military of China.You
     come, I must go; but I go on to say that the stride China has
     made in commerce is immense, and commerce and wealth are the
     power of nations, not the troops.Like the Chinese, I have a
     great contempt for military prowess.I admire
     administrators, not generals.A military Red-Button mandarin has
     to bow low to a Blue-Button civil mandarin, and rightly so to my
     mind."I wrote the other day to Li Hung Chang to protest against the
     railway from Ichang to Peking along the Grand Canal.In making it
     they would enter into no end of expenses, the coin would leave
     the country and they would not understand it, and would be
     fleeced by the financial cormorants of Great Britain.They can
     understand canals.Having arrived at Peking, Gordon was received in several councils by
Prince Chun, the father of the young Emperor and the recognised leader
of the War Party.The leading members of the Grand Council were also
present, and Gordon explained his views to them at length.In the
first place, he said, if there were war he would only stay to help
them on condition that they destroyed the suburbs of Peking, allowed
him to place the city in a proper state of defence, and removed the
Emperor and Court to a place of safety.When they expressed their
opinion that the Taku forts were impregnable, Gordon laughed, and said
they could be taken from the rear.The whole gist of his remarks was
that "they could not go to war," and when they still argued in the
opposite sense, and the interpreter refused to translate the harsh
epithets he applied to such august personages, he took the dictionary,
looked out the Chinese equivalent for "idiocy," and with his finger on
the word, placed it under the eyes of each member of the Council.The
end of this scene may be described in Gordon's own words: "I said make
peace, and wrote out the terms.They were, in all, five articles; the
only one they boggled at was the fifth, about the indemnity.They said
this was too hard and unjust.I said that might be, but what was the
use of talking about it?If a man demanded your money or your life,
you have only three courses open.You must either fight, call for
help, or give up your money.Now, as you cannot fight, it is useless
to call for help, since neither England nor France would stir a finger
to assist you.I believe these are the articles now under discussion
at St Petersburg, and the only one on which there is any question is
the fifth."This latter statement I may add, without going into the
question of the Marquis Tseng's negotiations in the Russian capital,
was perfectly correct.Gordon drew up several notes or memorandums for the information of the
Chinese Government.The first of these was mainly military, and the
following extracts will suffice:--

     "China's power lies in her numbers, in the quick moving of her
     troops, in the little baggage they require, and in their few
     wants.It is known that men armed with sword and spear can
     overcome the best regular troops equipped with breech-loading
     rifles, if the country is at all difficult and if the men with
     spears and swords outnumber their foe ten to one.If this is the
     case where men are armed with spears and swords, it will be much
     truer when those men are themselves armed with breech loaders.Her strength is in
     quiet movements, in cutting off trains of baggage, and in night
     attacks _not pushed home_--in a continuous worrying of her
     enemies.No artillery
     should be moved with the troops; it delays and impedes them.Infantry fire is the most fatal fire; guns make a noise far out
     of proportion to their value in war.If guns are taken into the
     field, troops cannot march faster than these guns.The degree of
     speed at which the guns can be carried dictates the speed at
     which the troops can march.As long as Peking is the centre of
     the Government of China, China can never go to war with any
     first-class power; it is too near the sea."The second memorandum was of greater importance and more general
application.In it he compressed the main heads of his advice into the
smallest possible space, and so far as it was at all feasible to treat
a vast and complicated subject within the limits of a simple and
practical scheme, he therein shows with the greatest clearness how the
regeneration of China might be brought about."In spite of the opinion of some foreigners, it will be generally
     acknowledged that the Chinese are contented and happy, that the
     country is rich and prosperous, and that the people are _au fond_
     united in their sentiments, and ardently desire to remain a
     nation.At constant intervals, however, the whole of this human
     hive is stirred by some dispute between the Pekin Government and
     some foreign Power; the Chinese people, proud of their ancient
     prestige, applaud the high tone taken up by the Pekin Government,
     crediting the Government with the power to support their strong
     words.This goes on for a time, when the Government gives in, and
     corresponding vexation is felt by the people.The recurrence of
     these disputes, the inevitable surrender ultimately of the Pekin
     Government, has the tendency of shaking the Chinese people's
     confidence in the Central Government.The Central Government
     appreciates the fact that, little by little, this prestige is
     being destroyed by their own actions among the Chinese people,
     each crisis then becomes more accentuated or difficult to
     surmount, as the Central Government know each concession is
     another nail in their coffin.The Central Government fear that
     the taking up of a spirited position by any pre-eminent Chinese
     would carry the Chinese people with him, and therefore the
     Central Government endeavour to keep up appearances, and to skirt
     the precipice of war as near as they possibly can, while never
     intending to enter into war."The Central Government residing in the extremity of the Middle
     Kingdom, away from the great influences which are now working in
     China, can never alter one iota from what they were years ago:
     they are being steadily left behind by the people they govern.They know this, and endeavour to stem these influences in all
     ways in their power, hoping to keep the people backward and in
     ignorance, and to <DW44> their progress to the same pace they
     themselves go, if it can be called a pace at all."It is therefore a maxim that 'no progress can be made by the
     Pekin Government.'To them any progress, whether slow or quick,
     is synonymous to slow or quick extinction, for they will never
     move."The term 'Pekin Government' is used advisedly, for if the
     Central Government were moved from Pekin into some province where
     the pulsations and aspirations of the Chinese people could have
     their legitimate effect, then the Central Government and the
     Chinese people, having a unison of thought, would work together."From what has been said above, it is maintained that, so long as
     the Central Government of China isolates itself from the Chinese
     people by residing aloof at Pekin, so long will the Chinese
     people have to remain passive under the humiliations which come
     upon them through the non-progressive and destructive disposition
     of their Government.These humiliations will be the chronic state
     of the Chinese people until the Central Government moves from
     Pekin and reunites itself to its subjects.No army, no purchases
     of ironclad vessels will enable China to withstand a first-class
     Power so long as China keeps her queen bee at the entrance of her
     hive.There is, however, the probability that a proud people like
     the Chinese may sicken at this continual eating of humble pie,
     that the Pekin Government at some time, by skirting too closely
     the precipice of war may fall into it, and then that sequence may
     be anarchy and rebellion throughout the Middle Kingdom which may
     last for years and cause endless misery."It may be asked--How can the present state of things be altered?How can China maintain the high position that the wealth,
     industry, and innate goodness of the Chinese people entitle her
     to have among the nations of the world?Some may say by the
     revolt of this Chinaman or of that Chinaman.To me this seems
     most undesirable, for, in the first place, such action would not
     have the blessing of God, and, in the second, it would result in
     the country being plunged into civil war.The fair, upright, and
     open course for the Chinese people to take is to work, through
     the Press and by petitions, on the Central Government, and to
     request them to move from Pekin, and bring themselves thus more
     into unison with the Chinese people, and thus save that people
     the constant humiliations they have to put up with, owing to the
     seat of the Central Government being at Pekin.This
     recommendation would need no secret societies, no rebellion, no
     treason; if taken up and persevered in it must succeed, and not
     one life need be lost."The Central Government at Pekin could not answer the Chinese
     people except in the affirmative when the Chinese people say to
     the Central Government--'By your residing aloof from us in Pekin,
     where you are exposed to danger, you separate our interests from
     yours, and you bring on us humiliation, which we would never have
     to bear if you resided in the interior.Take our application into
     consideration, and grant our wishes.'"I have been kindly treated by the Central Pekin Government and
     by the Chinese people; it is for the welfare of both parties that
     I have written and signed this paper.I may have expressed myself
     too strongly with respect to the non-progressive nature of the
     Pekin Government, who may desire the welfare of the Middle
     Kingdom as ardently as any other Chinese, but as long as the
     Pekin Government allow themselves to be led and directed by those
     drones of the hive, the Censors, so long must the Pekin
     Government bear the blame earned by those drones in plunging
     China into difficulties.In the insect world the bees get rid of
     the drones in winter."There was yet a third memorandum of a confidential nature written to
Li Hung Chang himself, of which Gordon did not keep a copy, but he
referred to it in the letter written to myself which I have already
quoted.: the prevention of war
between Russia and China, and of a rebellion on the part of Li Hung
Chang under European advice and encouragement, Gordon left China
without any delay.When he reached Shanghai on 16th August he found
another official telegram awaiting him: "Leave cancelled, resignation
not accepted."As he had already taken his passage home he did not
reply, but when he reached Aden he telegraphed as follows: "You might
have trusted me.My passage from China was taken days before the
arrival of your telegram which states 'leave cancelled.'Do you insist
on rescinding the same?"The next day he received a reply granting him
nearly six months' leave, and with that message the question of his
alleged insubordination may be treated as finally settled.There can
be no doubt that among his many remarkable achievements not the least
creditable was this mission to China, when by downright candour, and
unswerving resolution in doing the right thing, he not merely
preserved peace, but baffled the intrigues of unscrupulous
diplomatists and selfish governments.With that incident closed Gordon's connection with China, the country
associated with his most brilliant feats of arms, but in concluding
this chapter it seems to me that I should do well to record some later
expressions of opinion on that subject.The following interesting
letter, written on the eve of the war between France and China in
1882, was published by the _New York Herald_:--

     "The Chinese in their affairs with foreign nations are fully
     aware of their peculiar position, and count with reason that a
     war with either France or another Power will bring them perforce
     allies outside of England.The only Power that could go to war
     with them with impunity is Russia, who can attack them by land.I
     used the following argument to them when I was there:--The
     present dynasty of China is a usurping one--the Mantchou.We may
     say that it exists by sufferance at Pekin, and nowhere else in
     the Empire.If you look at the map of China Pekin is at the
     extremity of the Empire and not a week's marching from the
     Russian frontier.A war with Russia would imply the capture of
     Pekin and the fall of the Mantchou dynasty, which would never
     dare to leave it, for if they did the Chinamen in the south would
     smite them.I said, 'If you go to war then move the Queen
     Bee--_i.e._ the Emperor--into the centre of China and then fight;
     if not, you must make peace.'The two Powers who can coerce China
     are Russia and England.Russia could march without much
     difficulty on Pekin.This much would not hurt trade, so England
     would not interfere.England could march to Taku and Pekin and no
     one would object, for she would occupy the Treaty Ports.But if
     France tried to do so England would object.Thus it is that China
     will only listen to Russia and England, and eventually she must
     fear Russia the most of all Powers, for she can never get over
     the danger of the land journey, but she might, by a great
     increase of her fleet, get over the fear of England.I say China,
     but I mean the Mantchou dynasty, for the Mantchous are despised
     by the Chinese.Any war with China would be for France expensive
     and dangerous, not from the Chinese forces, which would be soon
     mastered, but from the certainty of complications with England.As for the European population in China, write them down as
     identical with those in Egypt in all affairs.Their sole idea is,
     without any distinction of nationality, an increased power over
     China for their own trade and for opening up the country as they
     call it, and any war would be popular with them; so they will egg
     on any Power to make it.My idea is that no colonial or foreign
     community in a foreign land can properly, and for the general
     benefit of the world, consider the questions of that foreign
     State.The leading idea is how they will benefit themselves.The
     Isle of Bourbon or Reunion is the cause of the Madagascar war.It
     is egged on by the planters there, and to my idea they (the
     planters) want slaves for Madagascar.I have a very mean opinion
     of the views of any colonial or foreign community: though I own
     that they are powerful for evil.Who would dare to oppose the
     European colony in Egypt or China, and remain in those
     countries?"In a letter to myself, written about this time, very much the same
views are expressed:--

     "I do not think I could enlighten _you_ about China.Her game is
     and will be to wait events, and she will try and work so as to
     embroil us with France if she does go to war.For this there
     would be plenty of elements in the Treaty Ports.One may say,
     humanly speaking, China going to war with France must entail our
     following suit.It would be a bad thing in some ways for
     civilization, for the Chinese are naturally so bumptious that any
     success would make them more so, and if allied to us, and they
     had success, it would be a bad look-out afterwards.Li Hung Chang as Emperor, if such a thing came to pass,
     would be worse than the present Emperor, for he is sharp and
     clever, would unite China under a Chinese dynasty, and be much
     more troublesome to deal with.Altogether, I cannot think that
     the world would gain if China went to war with France.Also I
     think it would be eventually bad for China.China being a queer
     country, we might expect queer things, and I believe if she did
     go to war she would contract with Americans for the destruction
     of French fleet, and she would let loose a horde of adventurers
     with dynamite.This is essentially her style of action, and Li
     Hung Chang would take it up, but do not say I think so."In a further letter from Jaffa, dated 17th November 1883, he wrote
finally on this branch of the subject:--

     "I fear I can write nothing of any import, so I will not attempt
     it.To you I can remark that if I were the Government I would
     consider the part that should be taken when the inevitable fall
     of the Mantchou dynasty takes place, what steps they would take,
     and how they would act in the break-up, which, however, will only
     end in a fresh cohesion of China, for we, or no other Power,
     could never for long hold the country.At Penang, Singapore,
     etc., the Chinese will eventually oust us in another generation."There was one other question about China upon which Gordon felt very
strongly, viz., the opium question, and as he expressed views which I
combated, I feel bound to end this chapter by quoting what he wrote on
this much-discussed topic.On one point he agrees with myself and his
other opponents in admitting that the main object with the Chinese
authorities was increased revenue, not morality.They have since
attained their object not only by an increased import duty, but also
in the far more extensive cultivation of the native drug, to which the
Emperor, by Imperial Edict, has given his formal sanction:--

                                   "PORT LOUIS, _3rd February 1882_."About the opium article, I think your article--'History of the
     Opium Traffic,' _Times_, 4th January 1884--reads well.But the
     question is this.The Chinese _amour propre_ as a nation is hurt
     by the enforced entry of the drug.This irritation is connected
     with the remembrance of the wars which led to the Treaties about
     opium.Had eggs or apples been the cause of the wars, _i.e._ had
     the Chinese objected to the import of eggs, and we had insisted
     on their being imported, and carried out such importation in
     spite of the Chinese wish by force of war, it would be to my own
     mind the same thing as opium now is to Chinese.We do not give
     the Chinese credit for being so sensitive as they are.As Black
     Sea Treaty was to Russia so opium trade is to China."I take the root of the question to be as above.I do not mean to
     say that all that they urge is fictitious about morality; and I
     would go further than you, and say I think they would willingly
     give up their revenue from opium, indeed I am sure of it, if they
     could get rid of the forced importation by treaty, but their
     action in so doing would be simply one of satisfying their _amour
     propre_.The opium importation is a constant reminder of their
     defeats, and I feel sure China will never be good friends with us
     till it is abolished.It is for that reason I would give it up,
     for I think the only two alliances worth having are France and
     China."I have never, when I have written on it, said anything further
     than this, _i.e.the Chinese Government will not have it_, let us
     say it is a good drug or not.I also say that it is not fair to
     force anything on your neighbour, and, therefore, morally, it is
     wrong, even if it was eggs."Further, I say that through our thrusting these eggs on China,
     this opium, we caused the wars with China which shook the
     prestige of the Pekin Government, and the outcome of this war of
     1842 was the Taeping Rebellion, with its deaths of 13,000,000.The military prestige of the Mantchous was shaken by these
     defeats, the heavy contributions for war led to thousands of
     soldiers being disbanded, to a general impoverishment of the
     people, and this gave the rebel chief, Hung-tsew-tsiuen, his
     chance."A wants B to let him import eggs, B refuses, A coerces him;
     therefore I say it is wrong, and that it is useless discussing
     whether eggs are good or not."Can anyone doubt but that, if the Chinese Government had the
     power, they would stop importation to-morrow?If so, why keep a
     pressure like this on China whom we need as a friend, and with
     whom this importation is and ever will be the sole point about
     which we could be at variance?I know this is the point with Li
     Hung Chang."People may laugh at _amour propre_ of China.It is a positive
     fact, they are most-pigheaded on those points.China is the only
     nation in the world which is forced to take a thing she does not
     want.England is the only nation which forces another nation to
     do this, in order to benefit India by this act.Put like this it
     is outrageous."Note this, only certain classes of vessels are subject to the
     Foreign Customs Office at Canton.By putting all vessels under
     that Office the Chinese Government would make L2,000,000 a year
     more revenue.The Chinese Government will not do this however,
     because it would put power in hands of foreigners, so they lose
     it.Did you ever read the letters of the Ambassador before
     Marquis Tseng?His name, I think, was Coh or Kwoh.He wrote home
     to Pekin about Manchester, telling its wonders, but adding,
     'These people are wonderful, but the masses are miserable far
     beyond Chinese.They think only of money and not of the welfare
     of the people.'"Any foreign nation can raise the bile of Chinese by saying,
     'Look at the English, they forced you to take their opium.'"I should not be a bit surprised did I hear that Li Hung Chang
     smoked opium himself.I know a lot of the princes do, so they
     say.I have no doubt myself that what I have said is the true and
     only reason, or rather root reason.Put our nation in the same
     position of having been defeated and forced to accept some
     article which theory used to consider bad for the health, like
     tea used to be, we would rebel as soon as we could against it,
     though our people drink tea.The opium trade is a standing,
     ever-present memento of defeat and heavy payments; and the
     Chinese cleverly take advantage of the fact that it is a
     deleterious drug."The opium wars were not about opium--opium was only a _cheval de
     bataille_.They were against the introduction of foreigners, a
     political question, and so the question of opium import is now.As for the loss to India by giving it up, it is quite another
     affair.On one hand you have gain, an embittered feeling and an
     injustice; on the other you have loss, friendly nations and
     justice.Cut down pay of all officers in India to Colonial
     allowances _above_ rank of captains.Do not give them Indian
     allowances, and you will cover nearly the loss, I expect.Why
     should officers in India have more than officers in Hongkong?"In a subsequent letter, dated from the Cape, 20th July 1882, General
Gordon replied to some objections I had raised as follows:--

     "As for the opium, to which you say the same objection applies as
     to tea, etc., it is not so, for opium has for ages been a tabooed
     article among Chinese respectable people.I own reluctance to
     foreign intercourse applies to what I said, but the Chinese know
     that the intercourse with foreigners cannot be stopped, and it,
     as well as the forced introduction of opium, are signs of defeat;
     yet one, that of intercourse, cannot be stopped or wiped away
     while the opium question can be.I am writing in a hurry, so am
     not very clear."What I mean is that no one country forces another country to
     take a drug like opium, and therefore the Chinese feel the
     forced introduction of opium as an intrusion and injustice;
     thence their feelings in the matter.This, I feel sure, is the
     case."What could our Government do _in re_ opium?Well, I should say,
     let the clause of treaty lapse about it, and let the smuggling be
     renewed."Pekin would, or rather could, never succeed in cutting off
     foreign intercourse.The Chinese are too much mixed up (and are
     increasingly so every year) with foreigners for Pekin even to try
     it.Also I do not think China would wish to stop its importation
     altogether.All they ask is an increased duty on it."CHAPTER X.

THE MAURITIUS, THE CAPE, AND THE CONGO.There was a moment of hesitation in Gordon's mind as to whether he
would come home or not.His first project on laying down the Indian
Secretaryship had been to go to Zanzibar and attack the slave trade
from that side.Before his plans were matured the China offer came,
and turned his thoughts in a different channel.On his arrival at
Aden, on the way back, he found that the late Sir William Mackinnon, a
truly great English patriot of the type of the merchant adventurers of
the Elizabethan age, had sent instructions that the ships of the
British India Steam Packet Company were at his disposal to convey him
whereever he liked, and for a moment the thought occurred to him to
turn aside to Zanzibar.But a little reflection led him to think that,
as he had been accused of insubordination, it would be better for him
to return home and report himself at headquarters.When he arrived in
London at the end of October 1880, he found that his letters, written
chiefly to his sister during his long sojourn in the Soudan, were on
the eve of publication by Dr Birkbeck Hill.That exceedingly
interesting volume placed at the disposal of the public the evidence
as to his great work in Africa, which might otherwise have been buried
in oblivion.It was written under considerable difficulties, for
Gordon would not see Dr Hill, and made a stringent proviso that he was
not to be praised, and that nothing unkind was to be said about
anyone.He did, however, stipulate for a special tribute of praise to
be given to his Arab secretary, Berzati Bey, "my only companion for
these years--my adviser and my counsellor."Berzati was among those
who perished with the ill-fated expedition of Hicks Pasha at the end
of 1883.To the publication of this work must be attributed the
establishment of Gordon's reputation as the authority on the Soudan,
and the prophetic character of many of his statements became clear
when events confirmed them.After a stay at Southampton and in London of a few weeks, Gordon was
at last induced to give himself a short holiday, and, strangely
enough, he selected Ireland as his recreation ground.I have been told
that Gordon had a strain of Irish blood in him, but I have failed to
discover it genealogically, nor was there any trace of its influence
on his character.He was not fortunate in the season of the year he
selected, nor in the particular part of the country he chose for his
visit.There is scenery in the south-west division of Ireland, quite
apart from the admitted beauty of the Killarney district, that will
vie with better known and more highly lauded places in Scotland and
Switzerland, but no one would recommend a stranger to visit that
quarter of Ireland at the end of November, and the absence of
cultivation, seen under the depressing conditions of Nature, would
strike a visitor with all the effect of absolute sterility.Gordon was
so impressed, and it seemed to him that the Irish peasants of a whole
province were existing in a state of wretchedness exceeding anything
he had seen in either China or the Soudan.If he had seen the same
places six months earlier, he would have formed a less extreme view of
their situation.It was just the condition of things that appealed to
his sympathy, and with characteristic promptitude he put his views on
paper, making one definite offer on his own part, and sent them to a
friend, the present General James Donnelly, a distinguished engineer
officer and old comrade, and moreover a member of a well-known Irish
family.Considering the contents of the letter, and the form in which
Gordon threw out his suggestions, it is not very surprising that
General Donnelly sent it to _The Times_, in which it was published on
3rd December 1880; but Gordon himself was annoyed at this step being
taken, because he realised that he had written somewhat hastily on a
subject with which he could scarcely be deemed thoroughly acquainted.The following is its text:--

     "You are aware how interested I am in the welfare of this
     country, and, having known you for twenty-six years, I am sure I
     may say the same of you."I have lately been over to the south-west of Ireland in the hope
     of discovering how some settlement could be made of the Irish
     question, which, like a fretting cancer, eats away our vitals as
     a nation."I have come to the conclusion that--

     "1.A gulf of antipathy exists between the landlords and tenants
     of the north-west, west, and south-west of Ireland.It is a gulf
     which is not caused alone by the question of rent; there is a
     complete lack of sympathy between these two classes.It is
     useless to inquire how such a state of things has come to pass.I
     call your attention to the pamphlets, letters, and speeches of
     the landlord class, as a proof of how little sympathy or kindness
     there exists among them for the tenantry, and I am sure that the
     tenantry feel in the same way towards the landlords.No half-measured Acts which left the landlords with any say
     to the tenantry of these portions of Ireland will be of any use.They would be rendered--as past Land Acts in Ireland have
     been--quite abortive, for the landlords will insert clauses to do
     away with their force.Any half-measures will only place the
     Government face to face with the people of Ireland as the
     champions of the landlord interest.The Government would be bound
     to enforce their decision, and with a result which none can
     foresee, but which certainly would be disastrous to the common
     weal.My idea is that, seeing--through this cause or that, it is
     immaterial to examine--a deadlock has occurred between the
     present landlords and tenants, the Government should purchase up
     the rights of the landlords over the whole or the greater part of
     Longford, Westmeath, Clare, Cork, Kerry, Limerick, Leitrim,
     Sligo, Mayo, Cavan, and Donegal.The yearly rental of these
     districts is some four millions; if the Government give the
     landlords twenty years' purchase, it would cost eighty millions,
     which at three and a half per cent.would give a yearly interest
     of L2,800,000, of which L2,500,000 could be recovered; the lands
     would be Crown lands; they would be administered by a Land
     Commission, who would be supplemented by an Emigration
     Commission, which might for a short time need L100,000.This
     would not injure the landlords, and, so far as it is an
     interference with proprietary rights, it is as just as is the law
     which forces Lord A. to allow a railway through his park for the
     public benefit.I would restrain the landlords from any power or
     control in these Crown land districts.Poor-law, roads, schools,
     etc., should be under the Land Commission.For the rest of Ireland, I would pass an Act allowing free
     sale of leases, fair rents, and a Government valuation."In conclusion, I must say, from all accounts and my own
     observation, that the state of our fellow-countrymen in the parts
     I have named is worse than that of any people in the world, let
     alone Europe.I believe that these people are made as we are,
     that they are patient beyond belief, loyal, but, at the same
     time, broken-spirited and desperate, living on the verge of
     starvation in places in which we would not keep our cattle."The Bulgarians, Anatolians, Chinese, and Indians are better off
     than many of them are.The priests alone have any sympathy with
     their sufferings, and naturally alone have a hold over them.In
     these days, in common justice, if we endow a Protestant
     University, why should we not endow a Catholic University in a
     Catholic country?Is it not as difficult to get a L5 note from a
     Protestant as from a Catholic or Jew?Read the letters of ----
     and of ----, and tell me if you see in them any particle of kind
     feeling towards the tenantry; and if you have any doubts about
     this, investigate the manner in which the Relief Fund was
     administered, and in which the sums of money for improvements of
     estates by landlords were expended."In 1833 England gave freedom to the West Indian slaves at a cost
     of twenty millions--worth now thirty millions.This money left
     the country.By an expenditure of
     eighty millions she may free her own people.She would have the
     hold over the land, and she would cure a cancer.I am not well
     off, but I would offer ---- or his agent L1000, if either of them
     would live one week in one of these poor devil's places, and feed
     as these people do.Our comic prints do an infinity of harm by
     their caricatures--firstly, the caricatures are not true, for the
     crime in Ireland is not greater than that in England; and,
     secondly, they exasperate the people on both sides of the
     Channel, and they do no good."It is ill to laugh and scoff at a question which affects our
     existence."This heroic mode of dealing with an old and very complicated
difficulty scarcely came within the range of practical achievement.The Irish question is not to be solved by any such simple
cut-and-dried procedure.It will take time, sympathy, and good-will.When the English people have eradicated their opinion that the Irish
are an inferior race, and when the Irish realise that the old
prejudice has vanished, the root-difficulty will be removed.At least
Gordon deserves the credit of having seen that much from his brief
observation on the spot, and his plea for them as "patient beyond
belief and loyal," may eventually carry conviction to the hearts of
the more powerful and prosperous kingdom.The Irish question was not the only one on which he recorded a written
opinion.The question of retaining Candahar was very much discussed
during the winter of 1880-81, and as the Liberal Government was very
much put to it to get high military opinion to support their proposal
of abandonment, they were very glad when Gordon wrote to _The Times_
expressing a strong opinion on their side.I think the writing of that
letter was mainly due to a sense of obligation to Lord Ripon, although
the argument used as to the necessity of Candahar being held by any
_single_ ruler of Afghanistan was, and is always, unanswerable.But
the question at that time was this: Could any such single ruler be
found, and was Abdurrahman, recognised in the August of 1880 as Ameer
of Cabul, the man?On 27th July 1880, less than eight weeks after Gordon's resignation of
his Indian appointment, occurred the disastrous battle of Maiwand,
when Yakoob's younger brother, Ayoob, gained a decisive victory over a
British force.That disaster was retrieved six weeks later by Lord
Roberts, but Ayoob remained in possession of Herat and the whole of
the country west of the Helmund.It was well known that the rivalry
between him and his cousin Abdurrahman did not admit of being patched
up, and that it could only be settled by the sword.At the moment
there was more reason to believe in the military talent of Ayoob than
of the present Ameer, and it was certain that the instant we left
Candahar the two opponents would engage in a struggle for its
possession.The policy of precipitate evacuation left everything to
the chapter of accidents, and if Ayoob had proved the victor, or even
able to hold his ground, the situation in Afghanistan would have been
eminently favourable for that foreign intervention which only the
extraordinary skill and still more extraordinary success of the Ameer
Abdurrahman has averted.In giving the actual text of Gordon's letter,
it is only right, while frankly admitting that the course pursued has
proved most successful and beneficial, to record that it might well
have been otherwise, and that as a mere matter of argument the
probability was quite the other way.Neither Gordon nor any other
supporter of the evacuation policy ventured to predict that
Abdurrahman, who was then not a young man, and whose early career had
been one of failure, was going to prove himself the ablest
administrator and most astute statesman in Afghan history."Those who advocate the retention of Candahar do so generally on
     the ground that its retention would render more difficult the
     advance of Russia on, and would prevent her fomenting rebellion
     in, India, and that our prestige in India would suffer by its
     evacuation."I think that this retention would throw Afghanistan, in the hope
     of regaining Candahar, into alliance with Russia, and that
     thereby Russia would be given a temptation to offer which she
     otherwise would not have.Supposing that temptation did not
     exist, what other inducement could Russia offer for this
     alliance?If, then, Russia did advance, she
     would bring her auxiliary tribes, who, with their natural
     predatory habits, would soon come to loggerheads with their
     natural enemies, the Afghans, and that the sooner when these
     latter were aided by us.Would the Afghans in such a case be
     likely to be tempted by the small share they would get of the
     plunder of India to give up their secure, independent position
     and our alliance for that plunder, and to put their country at
     the mercy of Russia, whom they hate as cordially as they do us?If we evacuate Candahar, Afghanistan can only have this small
     inducement of the plunder of India for Russia to offer her.Some
     say that the people of Candahar desire our rule.I cannot think
     that any people like being governed by aliens in race or
     religion.They prefer their own bad native governments to a
     stiff, civilized government, in spite of the increased worldly
     prosperity the latter may give."We may be sure that at Candahar the spirit which induced
     children to kill, or to attempt to kill our soldiers in 1879,
     etc., still exists, though it may be cowed.We have trouble
     enough with the fanatics of India; why should we go out of our
     way to add to their numbers?"From a military point of view, by the retention we should
     increase the line we have to defend by twice the distance of
     Candahar to the present frontier, and place an objective point to
     be attacked.Naturally we should make good roads to Candahar,
     which on the loss of a battle there--and such things must be
     always calculated as within possibility--would aid the advance of
     the enemy to the Indus.The _debouche_ of the defiles, with good
     lateral communications between them, is the proper line of
     defence for India, not the entry into those defiles, which cannot
     have secure lateral communications.If the entries of the defiles
     are held, good roads are made through them; and these aid the
     enemy, if you lose the entries or have them turned.This does not
     prevent the passage of the defiles being disputed."The retention of Candahar would tend to foment rebellion in
     India, and not prevent it; for thereby we should obtain an
     additional number of fanatical malcontents, who as British
     subjects would have the greatest facility of passing to and fro
     in India, which they would not have if we did not hold it."That our prestige would suffer in India by the evacuation I
     doubt; it certainly would suffer if we kept it and forsook our
     word--_i.e._ that we made war against Shere Ali, and not against
     his people.The native peoples of India would willingly part with
     any amount of prestige if they obtained less taxation."India should be able, by a proper defence of her present
     frontier and by the proper government of her peoples, to look
     after herself.If the latter is wanting, no advance of frontier
     will aid her."I am not anxious about Russia; but, were I so, I would care much
     more to see precautions taken for the defence of our Eastern
     colonies, now that Russia has moved her Black Sea naval
     establishment to the China Sea, than to push forward an
     outstretched arm to Candahar.The interests of the Empire claim
     as much attention as India, and one cannot help seeing that they
     are much more imperilled by this last move of Russia than by
     anything she can do in Central Asia."Politically, militarily, and morally, Candahar ought not to be
     retained.It would oblige us to keep up an interference with the
     internal affairs of Afghanistan, would increase the expenditure
     of impoverished India, and expose us chronically to the reception
     of those painfully sensational telegrams of which we have had a
     surfeit of late."During these few months Gordon wrote on several other subjects--the
Abyssinian question, in connection with which he curiously enough
styled "the Abyssinians the best of mountaineers," a fact not
appreciated until their success over the Italians many years later,
the registration of slaves in Egypt, and the best way of carrying on
irregular warfare in difficult country and against brave and active
races.His remarks on the last subject were called forth by our
experiences in the field against the Zulus in the first place, and the
Boers in the second, and quite exceptional force was given to them by
the occurrence of the defeat at Majuba Hill one day after they
appeared in the _Army and Navy Gazette_.For this reason I quote the
article in its entirety:--

     "The individual man of any country in which active outdoor life,
     abstinence, hunting of wild game, and exposure to all weathers
     are the habits of life, is more than a match for the private
     soldier of a regular army, who is taken from the plough or from
     cities, and this is the case doubly as much when the field of
     operations is a difficult country, and when the former is, and
     the latter is not, acclimatised.On the one hand, the former is
     accustomed to the climate, knows the country, and is trained to
     long marches and difficulties of all sorts inseparable from his
     daily life; the latter is unacclimatised, knows nothing of the
     country, and, accustomed to have his every want supplied, is at a
     loss when any extraordinary hardships or difficulties are
     encountered; he has only his skill in his arms and discipline in
     his favour, and sometimes that skill may be also possessed by his
     foe.The native of the country has to contend with a difficulty
     in maintaining a long contest, owing to want of means and want of
     discipline, being unaccustomed to any yoke interfering with
     individual freedom.The resources of a regular army, in
     comparison to those of the natives of the country, are infinite,
     but it is accustomed to discipline.In a difficult country, when
     the numbers are equal, and when the natives are of the
     description above stated, the regular forces are certainly at a
     very great disadvantage, until, by bitter experience in the
     field, they are taught to fight in the same irregular way as
     their foes, and this lesson may be learnt at a great cost.I
     therefore think that when regular forces enter into a campaign
     under these conditions, the former ought to avoid any unnecessary
     haste, for time does not press with them, while every day
     increases the burden on a country without resources and
     unaccustomed to discipline, and as the forces of the country,
     unprovided with artillery, never ought to be able to attack
     fortified posts, any advance should be made by the establishment
     of such posts.All engagements in the field ought, if possible,
     to be avoided, except by corps raised from people who in their
     habits resemble those in arms, or else by irregular corps raised
     for the purpose, apart from the routine and red-tape inseparable
     from regular armies.The regular forces will act as the back-bone
     of the expedition, but the rock and cover fighting will be done
     better by levies of such specially raised irregulars.For war
     with native countries, I think that, except for the defence of
     posts, artillery is a great incumbrance, far beyond its value.It
     is a continual source of anxiety.Its transport regulates the
     speed of the march, and it forms a target for the enemy, while
     its effects on the scattered enemy is almost _nil_.An advance of
     regular troops, as at present organised, is just the sort of
     march that suits an active native foe.The regulars' column must
     be heaped together, covering its transport and artillery.The
     enemy knows the probable point of its destination on a particular
     day, and then, knowing that the regulars cannot halt definitely
     where it may be chosen to attack, it hovers round the column like
     wasps.The regulars cannot, from not being accustomed to the
     work, go clambering over rocks, or beating covers after their
     foes.Therefore I conclude that in these wars[1] regular troops
     should only act as a reserve; that the real fighting should be
     done either by native allies or by special irregular corps,
     commanded by special men, who would be untrammelled by
     regulations; that, except for the defence of posts, artillery
     should be abandoned.It may seem egotistical, but I may state
     that I should never have succeeded against native foes had I not
     had flanks, and front, and rear covered by irregular forces.Whenever either the flanks, or rear, or front auxiliaries were
     barred in their advance, we turned the regular forces on that
     point, and thus strengthening the hindered auxiliaries, drove
     back the enemy.We owed defeats, when they occurred, to the
     absence of these auxiliaries, and on two occasions to having
     cannon with the troops, which lost us 1600 men.The Abyssinians,
     who are the best of mountaineers, though they have them, utterly
     despise cannon, as they hinder their movements.I could give
     instance after instance where, in native wars, regular troops
     could not hold their own against an active guerilla, and where,
     in some cases, the disasters of the regulars were brought about
     by being hampered by cannon.No one can deny artillery may be
     most efficient in the contention of two regular armies, but it is
     quite the reverse in guerilla warfare.The inordinate haste which
     exists to finish off these wars throws away many valuable aids
     which would inevitably accrue to the regular army if time was
     taken to do the work, and far greater expense is caused by this
     hurry than otherwise would be necessary.All is done on the
     '_Veni, vidi, vici_' principle.It may be very fine, but it is
     bloody and expensive, and not scientific.I am sure it will occur
     to many, the times we have advanced, without proper breaches,
     bridges, etc., and with what loss, assaulted.It would seem that
     military science should be entirely thrown away when combating
     native tribes.I think I am correct in saying that the Romans
     always fought with large auxiliary forces of the invaded country
     or its neighbours, and I know it was the rule of the Russians in
     Circassia."[1] In allusion more particularly to the Cape and China.Perhaps Gordon was influenced by the catastrophes in South Africa when
he sent the following telegram at his own expense to the Cape
authorities on 7th April 1881: "Gordon offers his services for two
years at L700 per annum to assist in terminating war and administering
Basutoland."To this telegram he was never accorded even the courtesy
of a negative reply.It will be remembered that twelve months earlier
the Cape Government had offered him the command of the forces, and
that his reply had been to refuse.The incident is of some interest as
showing that his attention had been directed to the Basuto question,
and also that he was again anxious for active employment.His wish for
the latter was to be realised in an unexpected manner.He was staying in London when, on visiting the War Office, he casually
met the late Colonel Sir Howard Elphinstone, an officer of his own
corps, who began by complaining of his hard luck in its just having
fallen to his turn to fill the post of Engineer officer in command at
the Mauritius, and such was the distastefulness of the prospect of
service in such a remote and unattractive spot, that Sir Howard went
on to say that he thought he would sooner retire from the service.In
his impulsive manner Gordon at once exclaimed: "Oh, don't worry
yourself, I will go for you; Mauritius is as good for me as anywhere
else."The exact manner in which this exchange was brought about has
been variously described, but this is the literal version given me by
General Gordon himself, and there is no doubt that, as far as he could
regret anything that had happened, he bitterly regretted the accident
that caused him to become acquainted with the Mauritius.In a letter
to myself on the subject from Port Louis he said: "It was not over
cheerful to go out to this place, nor is it so to find a deadly sleep
over all my military friends here."In making the arrangements which
were necessary to effect the official substitution of himself for
Colonel Elphinstone, Gordon insisted on only two points: first, that
Elphinstone should himself arrange the exchange; and secondly that no
payment was to be made to him as was usual--in this case about
L800--on an exchange being effected.Sir Howard Elphinstone was thus
saved by Gordon's peculiarities a disagreeable experience and a
considerable sum of money.Some years after Gordon's death Sir Howard
met with a tragic fate, being washed overboard while taking a trip
during illness to Madeira.Like everything else he undertook, Gordon determined to make his
Mauritius appointment a reality, and although he was only in the
island twelve months, and during that period took a trip to the
interesting group of the Seychelles, he managed to compress an immense
amount of work into that short space, and to leave on record some
valuable reports on matters of high importance.He found at Mauritius
the same dislike for posts that were outside the ken of headquarters,
and the same indifference to the dry details of professional work that
drove officers of high ability and attainments to think of resigning
the service sooner than fill them, and, when they did take them, to
pass their period of exile away from the charms of Pall Mall in a
state of inaction that verged on suspended animation.In a passage
already quoted, he refers to the deadly sleep of his military friends,
and then he goes on to say in a sentence, which cannot be too much
taken to heart by those who have to support this mighty empire, with
enemies on every hand--"We are in a perfect Fools' Paradise about our
power.We have plenty of power if we would pay attention to our work,
but the fault is, to my mind, the military power of the country is
eaten up by selfishness and idleness, and we are trading on the
reputation of our forefathers.When one sees by the newspapers the
Emperor of Germany sitting, old as he is, for two long hours
inspecting his troops, and officers here grudging two hours a week for
their duties, one has reason to fear the future."During his stay at Mauritius he wrote three papers of first-rate
importance.One of them on Egyptian affairs after the deposition of
Ismail may be left for the next chapter, and the two others, one on
coaling stations in the Indian Ocean, and the second on the
comparative merits of the Cape and Mediterranean routes come within
the scope of this chapter, and are, moreover, deserving of special
consideration.With regard to the former of these two important
subjects, Gordon wrote as follows, but I cannot discover that anything
has been done to give practical effect to his recommendations:--

     "I spoke to you concerning Borneo and the necessity for coaling
     stations in the Eastern seas.Taking Mauritius with its large
     French population, the Cape with its conflicting elements, and
     Hongkong, Singapore, and Penang with their vast Chinese
     populations, who may be with or against us, but who are at any
     time a nuisance, I would select such places where no temptation
     would induce colonists to come, and I would use them as maritime
     fortresses.For instance, the only good coaling place between
     Suez and Adelaide would be in the Chagos group, which contain a
     beautiful harbour at San Diego.My object is to secure this for
     the strengthening of our maritime power.These islands are of
     great strategical importance _vis a vis_ with India, Suez, and
     Singapore.Remember Aden has no harbour to speak of, and has the
     need of a garrison, while Chagos could be kept by a company of
     soldiers.It is wonderful our people do not take the views of our
     forefathers.They took up their positions at all the salient
     points of the routes.We can certainly hold these places, but
     from the colonial feelings they have almost ceased to be our own.By establishing these coaling stations no diplomatic
     complications could arise, while by their means we could unite
     all our colonies with us, for we could give them effective
     support.The spirit of no colony would bear up for long against
     the cutting off of its trade, which would happen if we kept
     watching the Mediterranean and neglected the great ocean routes.The cost would not be more than these places cost now, if the
     principle of heavily-armed, light-draught, swift gunboats with
     suitable arsenals, properly (not over) defended, were followed."Chagos as well as Seychelles forms part of the administrative group of
the Mauritius.The former with, as Gordon states, an admirable port in
San Diego, lies in the direct route to Australia from the Red Sea, and
the latter contains an equally good harbour in Port Victoria Mahe.The
Seychelles are remarkably healthy islands--thirty in number--and
Gordon recommended them as a good place for "a man with a little money
to settle in."He also advanced the speculative and somewhat
imaginative theory that in them was to be found the true site of the
Garden of Eden.The views Gordon expressed in 1881 as to the diminished importance of
the Mediterranean as an English interest, and the relative superiority
of the Cape over the Canal route, on the ground of its security, were
less commonly held then than they have since become.Whether they are
sound is not to be taken on the trust of even the greatest of
reputations; and in so complicated and many-sided a problem it will be
well to consider all contingencies, and to remember that there is no
reason why England should not be able in war-time to control them
both, until at least the remote epoch when Palestine shall be a
Russian possession."I think Malta has very much lost its importance.The
     Mediterranean now differs much from what it was in 1815.Other
     nations besides France possess in it great dockyards and
     arsenals, and its shores are backed by united peoples.Any war
     with Great Britain in the Mediterranean with any one Power would
     inevitably lead to complications with neutral nations.Steam has
     changed the state of affairs, and has brought the Mediterranean
     close to every nation of Europe.War in the Mediterranean is _war
     in a basin_, the borders of which are in the hands of other
     nations, all pretty powerful and interested in trade, and all
     likely to be affected by any turmoil in that basin, and to be
     against the makers of such turmoil.In fact, the Mediterranean
     trade is so diverted by the railroads of Europe, that it is but
     of small importance.The trade which is of value is the trade
     east of Suez, which, passing through the Canal, depends upon its
     being kept open.If the entrance to the Mediterranean were
     blocked at Gibraltar by a heavy fleet, I cannot see any advantage
     to be gained against us by the fleets blocked up in it--at any
     rate I would say, let our _first care_ be for the Cape route, and
     secondly for the Mediterranean and Canal.The former route
     entails no complications, the latter endless ones, coupled with a
     precarious tenure.Look at the Mediterranean, and see how small
     is that sea on which we are apparently devoting the greater part
     of our attention.The
     Resident, according to existing orders, reports to Bombay, and
     Bombay to _that_ Simla Council, which knows and cares nothing
     for the question.A special regiment should be raised for its
     protection."While stationed in the Mauritius, Gordon attained the rank of
Major-General in the army, and another colonel of Engineers was sent
out to take his place.During the last three months of his residence
he filled, in addition to his own special post, that of the command of
all the troops on the station, and at one time it seemed as if he
might have been confirmed in the appointment.But this was not done,
owing, as he suggested, to the "determination not to appoint officers
of the Royal Artillery or Engineers to any command;" but a more
probable reason was that Gordon had been inquiring about and had
discovered that the colonists were not only a little discontented, but
had some ground for their discontent.By this time Gordon's
uncompromising sense of justice was beginning to be known in high
official quarters, and the then responsible Government had far too
many cares on its shoulders that could not be shirked to invite others
from so remote and unimportant a possession as the Mauritius.Even before any official decision could have been arrived at in this
matter, fate had provided him with another destination.Two passages have already been cited, showing the overtures first made
by the Cape Government, and then by Gordon himself, for his employment
in South Africa.On 23rd
February 1882, when an announcement was made by myself that Gordon
would vacate his command in a few weeks' time, the Cape Government
again expressed its desire to obtain the use of his services, and
moreover recollected the telegram to which no reply had been sent.Sir
Hercules Robinson, then Governor of the Cape, sent the following
telegram to the Colonial Secretary, the Earl of Kimberley:--

     "Ministers request me to inquire whether H.M.'s Government would
     permit them to obtain the services of Colonel Charles Gordon.Ministers desire to invite Colonel Gordon to come to this Colony
     for the purpose of consultation as to the best measures to be
     adopted with reference to Basutoland, in the event of Parliament
     sanctioning their proposals as to that territory, and to engage
     his services, should he be willing to renew the offer made to
     their predecessors in April 1881, to assist in terminating the
     war and administering Basutoland."Lord Kimberley then sent instructions by telegraph to Durban, and
thence by steamer, sanctioning Gordon's employment and his immediate
departure from the Mauritius.The increasing urgency of the Basuto
question induced the Cape Government to send a message by telegraph to
Aden, and thence by steamer direct to Gordon.In this message they
stated that "the services of some one of proved ability, firmness, and
energy," were required; that they did not expect Gordon to be bound by
the salary named in his own telegram, and that they begged him to
visit the Colony "at once"--repeating the phrase twice.All these
messages reached Gordon's hands on 2nd April.Two days later he
started in the sailing vessel _Scotia_, no other ship being
obtainable.The Cape authorities had therefore no ground to complain of the
dilatoriness of the man to whom they appealed in their difficulty,
although their telegram was despatched 3rd of March, and Gordon did
not reach Cape Town before the 3rd of May.It will be quite understood
that Gordon had offered in the first place, and been specially invited
in the second place, to proceed to the Cape, for the purpose of
dealing with the difficulty in Basutoland.He was to find that, just
as his mission to China had been complicated by extraneous
circumstances, so was his visit to the Cape to be rendered more
difficult by Party rivalries, and by work being thrust upon him which
he had several times refused to accept, and for the efficient
discharge of which, in his own way, he knew he would never obtain the
requisite authority.Before entering upon this matter a few words may be given to the
financial agreement between himself and the Cape Government.The first
office in 1880 had carried with it a salary of L1500; in 1881 Gordon
had offered to go for L700; in 1882 the salary was to be a matter of
arrangement, and on arrival at Cape Town he was offered L1200 a year.He refused to accept more than L800 a year; but as he required and
insisted on having a secretary, the other L400 was assigned for that
purpose.In naming such a small and inadequate salary Gordon was under
the mistaken belief that his imperial pay of L500 a year would
continue, but, unfortunately for him, a new regulation, 25th June
1881, had come into force while he was buried away in the Mauritius,
and he was disqualified from the receipt of the income he had earned.Gordon was very indignant, more especially because it was clear that
he was doing public service at the Cape, while, as he said with some
bitterness, if he had started an hotel or become director of a
company, his pay would have gone on all the same.The only suggestion
the War Office made was that he should ask the Cape Government to
compensate him, but this he indignantly refused.In the result all his
savings during the Mauritius command were swallowed up, and I believe
I understate the amount when I say that his Cape experience cost him
out of his own pocket from first to last five hundred pounds.That sum
was a very considerable one to a man who never inherited any money,
and who went through life scorning all opportunities of making it.But on this occasion he vindicated a principle, and showed that
"money was not his object."As Gordon went to the Cape specially for the purpose of treating the
Basutoland question, it may be well to describe briefly what that
question was.Basutoland is a mountainous country, difficult of
access, but in resources self-sufficing, on the eastern side of the
Orange Free State, and separated from Natal and Kaffraria, or the
Transkei division of Cape Colony, by the sufficiently formidable
Drakensberg range.Its population consisted of 150,000 stalwart and
freedom-loving Highlanders, ruled by four chiefs--Letsea, Masupha,
Molappo, and Lerothodi, with only the three first of whom had Gordon
in any way to deal.Notwithstanding their numbers, courage, and the
natural strength of their country, they owed their safety from
absorption by the Boers to British protection, especially in 1868, and
they were taken over by us as British subjects without any formality
three years later.They do not seem to have objected so long as the
tie was indefinite, but when in 1880 it was attempted to enforce the
regulations of the Peace Preservation Act by disarming these clans,
then the Basutos began a pronounced and systematic opposition.Letsea
and Lerothodi kept up the pretence of friendliness, but Masupha
fortified his chief residence at Thaba Bosigo, and openly prepared for
war.That war had gone on for two years without result, and the total
cost of the Basuto question had been four millions sterling when
Gordon was summoned to the scene.Having given this general
description of the question, it will be well to state the details of
the matters in dispute, as set forth by Gordon after he had examined
all the papers and heard the evidence of the most competent and
well-informed witnesses.His memorandum, dated 26th May 1882, read as follows:--

     "In 1843 the Basuto chiefs entered into a treaty with Her
     Majesty's Government, by which the limits of Basutoland were
     recognised roughly in 1845.The Basuto chiefs agreed by
     convention with Her Majesty's Government to a concession of land
     on terminable leases, on the condition that Her Majesty's
     Government should protect them from Her Majesty's subjects."In 1848 the Basuto chiefs agreed to accept the Sovereignty of
     Her Majesty the Queen, on the understanding that Her Majesty's
     Government would restrain Her Majesty's subjects in the
     territories they possessed."Between 1848 and 1852, notwithstanding the above treaties, a
     large portion of Basutoland was annexed by the proclamation of
     Her Majesty's Government, and this annexation was accompanied by
     hostilities, which were afterwards decided by Sir George Cathcart
     as being undertaken in support of unjustifiable aggression."In 1853, notwithstanding the treaties, Basutoland was abandoned,
     leaving its chiefs to settle as they could with the Europeans of
     the Free State who were settled in Basutoland and were mixed up
     with the Basuto people."In 1857, the Basutos asked Her Majesty's Government to arbitrate
     and settle their quarrels."In 1858 the Free State interfered to protect their settlers, and
     a war ensued, and the Free State was reduced to great
     extremities, and asked Her Majesty's Government to mediate.This
     was agreed to, and a frontier line was fixed by Her Majesty's
     Government."In 1865 another war broke out between the Free State and the
     Basutos, at the close of which the Basutos lost territory, and
     were accepted as British subjects by Her Majesty's Government for
     the second time, being placed under the direct government of Her
     Majesty's High Commissioner."In 1871 Basutoland was annexed to the _Crown_ Colony of the Cape
     of Good Hope, without the Basutos having been consulted."In 1872 the _Crown_ Colony became a colony with a responsible
     Government, and the Basutos were placed virtually under another
     power.The Basutos asked for representation in the Colonial
     Parliament, which was refused, and to my mind here was the
     mistake committed which led to these troubles."Then came constant disputes, the Disarmament Act, the Basuto
     War, and present state of affairs."From this chronology there are four points that stand out in
     relief:--

     "1.That the Basuto people, who date back generations, made
     treaties with the British Government, which treaties are equally
     binding, whether between two powerful states, or between a
     powerful state and a weak one.That, in defiance of the treaties, the Basutos lost land.That, in defiance of the treaties, the Basutos, without being
     consulted or having their rights safeguarded, were handed over to
     another power--the Colonial Government.That that other power proceeded to enact their disarmament, a
     process which could only be carried out with a servile race, like
     the Hindoos of the plains of India, and which any one of
     understanding must see would be resisted to the utmost by any
     people worth the name; the more so in the case of the Basutos,
     who realised the constant contraction of their frontiers in
     defiance of the treaties made with the British Government, and
     who could not possibly avoid the conclusion that this disarmament
     was only a prelude to their extinction."The necessary and inevitable result of the four deductions was
     that the Basutos resisted, and remain passively resisting to this
     day."The fault lay in the British Government not having consulted the
     Basutos, their co-treaty power, when they handed them over to the
     Colonial Government.They should have called together a national
     assembly of the Basuto people, in which the terms of the transfer
     could have been quietly arranged, and this I consider is the root
     of all the troubles, and expenses, and miseries which have sprung
     up; and therefore, as it is always best to go to the root of any
     malady, I think it would be as well to let bygones be bygones,
     and to commence afresh by calling together by proclamation a
     Pitso of the whole tribe, in order to discuss the best means of
     sooner securing the settlement of the country.I think that some
     such proclamation should be issued.By this Pitso we would know
     the exact position of affairs, and the real point in which the
     Basutos are injured or considered themselves to be injured."To those who wish for the total abandonment of Basutoland, this
     course must be palatable; to those who wish the Basutos well, and
     desire not to see them exterminated, it must also be palatable;
     and to those who hate the name of Basutoland it must be
     palatable, for it offers a solution which will prevent them ever
     hearing the name again."This Pitso ought to be called at once.All Colonial officials
     ought to be absent, for what the colony wants is to know what is
     the matter; and the colony wishes to know it from the Basuto
     people, irrespective of the political parties of the Government."Such a course would certainly recommend itself to the British
     Government, and to its masters--the British people."Provided the demands of the Basutos--who will, for their own
     sakes, never be for a severing of their connection with the
     colony, in order to be eventually devoured by the Orange Free
     State--are such as will secure the repayment to the colony of all
     expenses incurred by the Colonial Government in the maintenance
     of this connection, and I consider that the Colonial Government
     should accept them."With respect to the Loyals, there are some 800 families, the
     cost of keeping whom is on an average one shilling per diem each
     family, that is L40 per diem, or L1200 per month, and they have
     been rationed during six months at cost of L7200.Their claims
     may therefore be said to be some L80,000.Now, if these 800
     families (some say half) have claims amounting to L30 each
     individually (say 400 families at L30), L12,000 paid at once
     would rid the colony of the cost of subsistence of these
     families, viz.L600 a month (the retention of them would only add
     to the colonial expenditure, and tend to pauperise them)."I believe that L30,000 paid at once to the Loyals would reduce
     their numbers to one-fourth what they are now.It is proposed to
     send up a Commission to examine into their claims; the Commission
     will not report under two months, and there will be the delay of
     administration at Cape Town, during all which time L1200 a month
     are being uselessly expended by the colony, detrimentally to the
     Loyals.Therefore I recommend (1) that the sum of L30,000 should
     be at once applied to satisfy the minor claims of the Loyals; (2)
     that this should be done at once, at same time as the meeting of
     the National Pitso."The effect of this measure in connection with the meeting of the
     National Pitso would be very great, for it would be a positive
     proof of the good disposition of the Colonial Government.The
     greater claims could, if necessary, wait for the Parliamentary
     Commission, but I would deprecate even this delay, and though for
     the distribution of the L30,000 I would select those on whom the
     responsibility of such distribution could be put, without
     reference to the Colonial Government, for any larger sums perhaps
     the colonial sanction should be taken."I urge that this measure of satisfying the Loyals is one that
     presses and cannot well wait months to be settled."In conclusion, I recommend (1) that a National Pitso be held;
     (2) that the Loyals should at once be paid off."I feel confident that by the recommendation No.1 nothing could
     be asked for detrimental to colonial interests, whose Government
     would always have the right of amending or refusing any demands,
     and that by recommendation No.2 a great moral effect would be
     produced at once, and some heavy expenses saved."Attached to this memorandum was the draft of a proclamation to the
chiefs, etc., of Basutoland, calling on them to meet in Pitso or
National Assembly without any agent of the Colonial Government being
present.It was not very surprising that such a policy of fairness and
consideration for Basuto opinion, because so diametrically opposite to
everything that Government had been doing, should have completely
taken the Cape authorities aback, nor were its chances of being
accepted increased by Gordon entrusting it to Mr Orpen, whose policy
in the matter had been something more than criticised by the Ministers
at that moment in power at the Cape.Gordon's despatch was in the
hands of the Cape Premier early in June, and the embarrassment he felt
at the ability and force with which the Basuto side of the question
was put by the officer, who was to settle the matter for the Cape
Government, was so great that, instead of making any reply, he passed
it on to Lord Kimberley and the Colonial Office for solution.It was
not until the 7th of August that an answer was vouchsafed to Gordon on
what was, after all, the main portion of his task in South Africa.In
the interval Gordon was employed on different military and
administrative matters, for he had had thrust on him as a temporary
charge the functions of Commandant-General of the Cape forces, which
he had never wished to accept, but it will be clearer to the reader to
follow to the end the course of his Basuto mission, which was the
essential cause of his presence in South Africa.On the 18th July the Ministers requested Gordon to go up to
Basutoland.At that moment, and indeed for more than three weeks
later, Gordon had received no reply to the detailed memorandum already
quoted.He responded to this request with the draft of a convention
that would "save the susceptibilities of Mr Orpen between whom and
Masupha any _entente_ would seem impossible."The basis of that
convention was to be the semi-independence of the Basutos, but its
full text must be given in order to show the consistency, as well as
the simplicity, of Gordon's proposed remedy of a question that had
gone on for years without any prospect of termination.CONVENTION BETWEEN COLONY, CAPE OF GOOD HOPE, AND THE CHIEF AND
                            PEOPLE OF BASUTOLAND."The Colonial Government having nominated as their
     representatives, Colonel C. Griffiths and Dr J. W. Matthews, the
     Basuto nation having nominated the Chief Letsea Moshesh and
     Masupha Moshesh as their representatives, the following
     convention has been agreed upon between these representatives:--

     "Art.There shall be a complete amnesty on both sides to all
     who have taken part in the late hostilities.The question of the succession to Molappo Moshesh's
     chieftainship shall be decided by the Chief of the Basuto Nation.The Colonial Government engages to respect the integrity
     of the Basuto nation within the limits to be hereafter decided
     upon, and also to use its best endeavours to have these limits
     respected by the Orange Free State.The Colonial Government will appoint a Resident to the
     Basuto nation, with two sub-residents.The Resident will consult
     with the leading Chief of the Basuto Nation on all measures
     concerning the welfare of that country, but the government of the
     Basutos in all internal affairs will remain under the
     jurisdiction of the chiefs.The Supreme Council of Basutoland will consist of the
     leading chiefs and the Resident; the minor chiefs of Basutoland
     will form a council with the sub-residents.These minor councils
     can be appealed against by any non-content to the Supreme
     Council.A hut-tax will be collected of 10s.per hut by the
     chiefs, and will be paid to the Resident and sub-resident.The
     sum thus collected will be used in paying the Resident L2000 a
     year, all included: the sub-residents L1200 a year, all included;
     in providing for the education of people (now costing L3320 a
     year); in making roads, etc.The chiefs collecting hut-tax will be paid 10 per cent.The frontier line will be placed under headmen, who will
     be responsible that no thieving be permitted, that spoors are
     followed up.For this these headmen will be paid at the rate of
     L20 to L60 per annum, according to the length of frontier they
     are responsible for.All passes must be signed by Residents or sub-residents
     for the Orange Free State, or for the Cape Colony."_Query_--Would it be advisable to add chiefs and missionaries
     after sub-residents?Colonial warrants will be valid in Basutoland, the
     chiefs being responsible that prisoners are given up to Resident
     or sub-residents.All communications between Basutoland and the Orange
     Free State to be by and through the Resident.This Convention to be in quadruplicate, two copies
     being in possession of the Colonial Government, and two copies in
     possession of the Basuto chiefs.On signature of this Convention, and on the fulfilment
     of Art.1, amnesty clause, the Colonial Government agrees to
     withdraw the military forces and the present magisterial
     administration."To this important communication no answer was ever vouchsafed, but on
7th August, long after it was in the hands of Ministers, Mr Thomas
Scanlan, the Premier, wrote a long reply to the earlier memorandum of
26th May.The writer began by quoting Lord Kimberley's remarks on that
memorandum, which were as follows:--

     "I have received the memorandum on the Basuto question by
     Major-General Gordon.I do not think it necessary to enter upon a
     discussion of the policy suggested in this memorandum, but it
     will doubtless be borne in mind by your Ministers that, as I
     informed you by my telegram of the 6th of May last, H.M.'s
     Government cannot hold out any expectation that steps will be
     taken by them to relieve the colony of its responsibilities in
     Basutoland."The interpretation placed, and no doubt correctly placed, on that
declaration of Government policy was that under no circumstances was
it prepared to do anything in the matter, and that it had quite a
sufficient number of troubles and worries without the addition of one
in remote and unimportant Basutoland.Having thus got out of the
necessity of discussing this important memorandum, under the cloak of
the Colonial Office's decision in favour of inaction, the Premier went
on to say that he was "most anxious to avoid the resumption of
hostilities on the one hand or the abandonment of the territory on the
other."There was an absolute ignoring in this statement of Gordon's
deliberate opinion that the only way to solve the difficulty was by
granting Basutoland semi-independence on the terms of a Convention
providing for the presence of a British Resident, through whom all
external matters were to be conducted.At the same time Mr Scanlan
informed Gordon that he was sending up Mr Sauer, then Secretary for
Native Affairs, who was a nominee of Mr Orpen, the politician whose
policy was directly impugned.On Mr Sauer reaching King William's Town, where Gordon was in
residence at the Grand Depot of the Cape forces, he at once asked him
to accompany him to Basutoland.Gordon at first declined to do this on
two grounds, viz.that he saw no good could ensue unless the
convention were granted, and also that he did not wish Mr Sauer, or
any other representative of the Cape Government, as a companion,
because he had learnt that "Masupha would only accept his proposed
visit as a private one, and then only with his private secretary and
two servants."After some weeks' hesitation Gordon was induced by Mr Sauer to so far
waive his objection as to consent to accompany him to Letsea's
territory.This Basuto chief kept up the fiction of friendly relations
with the Cape, but after Gordon had personally interviewed him, he
became more than ever convinced that all the Basuto chiefs were in
league.Mr Sauer was of opinion that Letsea and the other chiefs might
be trusted to attack and able to conquer Masupha.There was no
possibility of reconciling these clashing views, but Gordon also
accompanied Mr Sauer to Leribe, the chief town of Molappo's territory,
north of, and immediately adjoining that of, Masupha.Here Gordon
found fresh evidence as to the correctness of his view, that all the
Basuto leaders were practically united, and he wrote a memorandum,
dated 16th September, which has not been published, showing the
hopelessness of getting one chief to coerce the others.Notwithstanding the way he had been treated by the Cape Government,
which had ignored all his suggestions, Gordon, in his intense desire
to do good, and his excessive trust in the honour of other persons,
yielded to Mr Sauer's request to visit Masupha, and not only yielded
but went without any instructions or any prior agreement that his
views were to prevail.The consequence was that Mr Sauer deliberately
resolved to destroy Gordon's reputation as a statesman, and to ensure
the triumph of his own policy by an act of treachery that has never
been surpassed.While Gordon went as a private visitor at the special invitation of
Masupha to that chief's territory, Mr Sauer, who was well acquainted
with Gordon's views, and also the direct author of Gordon's visit at
that particular moment, incited Letsea to induce Lerothodi to attack
Masupha.At the moment that the news of this act of treachery reached
Masupha's ears, Gordon was a guest in Masupha's camp, and the first
construction placed upon events by that chief was, that Gordon had
been sent up to hoodwink and keep him quiet, while a formidable
invasion was plotted of his territory.When Masupha reported this news
to Gordon, he asked what he advised him to do, and it has been
established that the object of the question was to ascertain how far
Gordon was privy to the plot.Gordon's candid reply--"Refuse to have
any dealings with the Government until the forces are withdrawn," and
his general demeanour, which showed unaffected indignation, convinced
Masupha of his good faith and innocence of all participation in the
plot.A very competent witness, Mr Arthur Pattison (letter in _The Times_,
20th August 1885), bears this testimony: "Gordon divined his character
marvellously, and was the only man Masupha had the slightest regard
for.Masupha, if you treat him straightforwardly, is as nice a man as
possible, and even kind and thoughtful; but, if you treat him the
other way, he is a fiend incarnate."Had Masupha not been thus convinced, Gordon's death was decided on,
and never in the whole course of his career, not even when among the
Taepings on the day of the Wangs' murder in Soochow, nor among
Suleiman's slave-hunters at Shaka, was he in greater peril than when
exposed by the treacherous proceedings of Sauer and Orpen to the wrath
of Masupha.On his return in safety he at once sent in his
resignation, but those who played him false not merely never received
their deserts for an unpardonable breach of faith to a loyal
colleague, but have been permitted by a lax public opinion at the Cape
to remain in the public service, and are now discharging high and
responsible duties.Gordon's mission to the leading Basuto chief, and the policy of
conciliation which he consistently and ably advocated from the
beginning to the end of his stay at the Cape, were thus failures, but
they failed, as an impartial writer like Mr Gresswell says, solely
because "of Mr Sauer's intrigues behind his back."It is only
necessary to add what Gordon himself wrote on this subject on his
return, and to record that practically the very policy he advocated
was carried into force, not by the Cape Government, but over its head
by the British Government, two years later, in the separation of
Basutoland from the Cape Colony, and by placing it in its old direct
dependence under the British Crown."I have looked over the Cape papers; the only thing that is
     misrepresented, so far as I could see in a ten minutes' glance at
     them, is that Sauer says I knew of his intentions of sending an
     expedition against Masupha.He puts it thus: 'Gordon knew that an
     expedition was being organised against Masupha.'He gives
     apparently three witnesses that I knew well.It is quite true;
     but read the words._I knew Sauer was going_ to try the useless
     expedient of an expedition against Masupha, and _before he did
     so_ we _agreed I should go and try and make peace_.While
     carrying on this peace mission, Sauer sends the expedition.So
     you see he is verbally correct; yet the deduction is false; in
     fact, who would ever go up with peace overtures to a man who was
     to be attacked during those overtures, as Masupha was?Garcia
     knew well enough what a surprise it was to him and me when we
     heard Sauer was sending the expedition.Garcia was with me at the
     time."And again, when at Jaffa, General Gordon adds further, on the 27th of
July 1883:--

     "I saw Masupha one day at 10 A.M., and spoke to him; Sauer was
     twenty miles away.I came back, and wrote to Sauer an
     account of what had passed; before I sent it off I received a
     letter from Sauer.I believe it is wished to be made out that
     Sauer wrote this letter after he had heard what had passed
     between Masupha and me.This is not the case, for Sauer, having
     let me go to Masupha, changed his mind and wrote the letter, but
     this letter had nothing to do with my interview with Masupha."With this further quotation of Gordon's own words I may conclude the
description of the Basuto mission, which, although deemed a failure at
the time, was eventually the direct cause of the present
administrative arrangement in that important district of South Africa."In order you should understand the position of affairs, I recall
     to your memory the fact that Scanlan, Merriman, and yourself all
     implied to me doubts of Orpen's policy and your desire to remove
     him; that I deprecated any such change in my favour; that I
     accepted the post of Commandant-General on Merriman's statement
     that the Government desired me to eradicate the red-tape system
     of the colonial forces; that I made certain reports to the
     Government upon the settlement of the Basuto question in May and
     July, showing my views; that the Government were aware of the
     great difference between my views and those of Orpen, both by
     letter and verbally to Merriman; also to my objections to go up.Sauer was told by me the same thing.I conversed with him _en
     route_, and I told him if I visited Masupha I could not
     afterwards fight him, for I would not go and spy upon his
     defences.Sauer asked me to go to Masupha; he knew my views; yet
     when I was there negotiating, he, or rather Orpen, moved
     Lerothodi to attack Masupha, who would, I believe, have come to
     terms respecting the acceptance of magistrates, a modified
     hut-tax, and border police.The reported movement of Lerothodi
     prevented my coming to any arrangement.I told Masupha, when he
     sent and told me of Lerothodi's advance, not to answer the
     Government until the hostile movements had ceased.The Government
     sent me up, knowing my views, and against my wish, and knowing I
     was not likely to mince matters.There are not more than two
     Europeans in Basutoland who believe in Orpen or his policy, while
     the natives have lost all confidence in him.Sauer shut his eyes
     to all this, and has thrown in his lot with Orpen.Masupha is a
     sincere man, and he does not care to have placed with him
     magistrates, against whom are complaints, which Sauer ignores.To
     show you I was in earnest, I offered to remain as magistrate with
     Masupha for two years, so much did I desire a settlement of the
     Basuto question.I did not want nor would I have taken the post
     of Governor's Agent.The chiefs and people desire peace, but not
     at any price.They have intelligence enough to see through
     wretched magistrates like some of those sent up into the native
     territories.They will accept a convention like the one I sent
     down to the Colonial Secretary on the 19th of July, and no other.I do not write this to escape being a scapegoat--in fact, I like
     the altar--only that you may know my views.As long as the
     present magistrates stay there, no chance exists for any
     arrangement.As to the Premier's remark that I would not fight
     against Masupha, is it likely I could fight against a man with
     whom I am life and soul?Would I fight against him because he
     would not be controlled by some men like ---- and ----?Even
     suppose I could sink my conscience to do so, what issue would
     result from the action of undisciplined and insubordinate troops,
     who are difficult to keep in order during peace-time, and about
     whom, when I would have made an example of one officer, a
     Minister telegraphs to me to let him down easy.I beg to recall
     to you that Her Majesty's Government disapproved of the former
     Basuto war; therefore, why should I, who am an outsider to the
     colony, even pretend I could make war against a noble people, who
     resist magistrates of no capacity?The Government were well
     warned by me, and they cannot, therefore, plead being led
     astray."Intimately connected with the Basuto question was the larger one of
the right treatment to be generally extended to the natives, and on
that subject General Gordon drew up, on 19th October 1882, the
following masterly note, which elicited the admiration of one of the
Cape Premiers, Mr Merriman, who said--"As a Colony we must try to
follow out the ideas sketched by General Gordon."The following is the full text of this interesting and valuable state
paper:--

                           THE NATIVE QUESTION.The native question of South Africa is not a difficult one to
     an outsider.The difficulty lies in procuring a body of men who
     will have strength of purpose to carry out a definite policy with
     respect to the natives.The strained relations which exist between the colonist and
     the native are the outcome of employing, as a rule, magistrates
     lacking in tact, sympathy, and capacity to deal with the natives,
     in the Government not supervising the action of these
     magistrates, and in condoning their conduct, while acknowledging
     those faults which come to their cognisance.The Colonial Government act in the nomination of native
     magistrates as if their duties were such as any one could
     fulfil, instead of being, as they are, duties requiring the
     greatest tact and judgment.There can be no doubt but that in a
     great measure, indeed one may say entirely, disturbances among
     the natives are caused by the lack of judgment, or of honesty, or
     of tact, on the part of the magistrates in the native
     territories.There may be here and there good magistrates, but
     the defects of the bad ones re-act on the good ones.Revolt is
     contagious and spreads rapidly among the natives.One may say no supervision, in the full sense of the term,
     exists over the actions of magistrates in native territories.They report to headquarters what suits them, but unless some very
     flagrant injustice is brought to light, which is often condoned,
     the Government know nothing.The consequence is that a continual
     series of petty injustices rankle in the minds of the natives,
     eventually breaking out into a revolt, in the midst of which
     Government does not trouble to investigate the causes of such
     revolt, but is occupied in its suppression.The history of the
     South African wars is essentially, as Sir G. Cathcart puts it,
     "Wars undertaken in support of unjustifiable acts."Sir Harry
     Smith was recalled for supporting an inefficient official of the
     now Free State Territory.Any one who chooses can investigate the
     causes of the late wars, and will find out that they arose in a
     great measure from the ignorance of the Government, their support
     of incapable officials, and their weakness in not investigating
     causes before they proceeded to coercion.The Duke of
     Wellington said that any fool could govern by that means.And it
     is still more rotten when Government governs by the rule of
     coercion without the power of coercion except at great expense.A properly constituted Commission of independent men
     proceeding to the native territories, not accepting the
     hospitality of those whose conduct they _go_ to investigate, not
     driving through the territories in hot haste, as is the manner of
     some Ministers, but a Commission who would patiently and
     fearlessly inquire into every detail of administration, into
     every grievance, is the _sine qua non_ of any quiet in the native
     territories.This Commission should detail on brass plates the
     _modus vivendi_, the limits of territory of each district chief,
     and a body of trustees should be appointed to watch over any
     infraction of such charter.It must be borne in mind that these native territories cost
     the Colony for administration some L9000 per annum for
     administration of magistracies; the receipts are some L3000,
     leaving a deficit of some L6000 per annum.To this deficit has to
     be added some L150,000 for regular troops.The last rebellion of
     Transkei ended in capture of some L60,000 worth of cattle, and
     that from natives of Colony driven into rebellion, and cost
     Government of Colony with Basuto war nearly L4,000,000.It is
     surely worth while, from a financial point of view, to
     investigate the administration of the Transkei.The present state of the Transkei is one of seething
     discontent and distrust which the rivalry of the tribes alone
     prevents breaking out into action, to be quelled again at great
     expense and by the ruin of the people, and upset of all
     enterprise to open up the country.Throughout the Transkei is one
     general clamour against the Government for broken promises, for
     promises made and never kept.Magistrates complain no answers are
     given to their questions; things are allowed to drift along as
     best they can.A fair open policy towards the Pondos would obtain
     from them all the Colony could require, but as things are now,
     the Pondos are full of distrust, and only want the chance to turn
     against the Colony.There are in Transkei 399,000 natives, and
     2800 Europeans.Therefore, for the benefit of these 2800
     Europeans, 399,000 natives are made miserable, and an expenditure
     of L210,000 is incurred by the Colony with the probability of
     periodical troubles.However disagreeable it might be, the Commission of
     Investigation should inquire into the antecedents of each
     magistrate, and also his capabilities.With respect to Basutoland, it is understood that no revenue
     from that country is to go to the Colony, therefore it can be no
     object to Colony to insist on the installation of magistrates in
     that country.If the magistrates of Transkei are the cause of
     discontent among the natives, then what object is there in
     insisting on their installation in Basutoland?The Pondos, a far
     inferior people, are happy under their own chiefs--far happier
     than the natives of Transkei.Why should the Colony insist on
     sending men who are more likely to goad the Basutos into
     rebellion than anything else?The administration of Basutoland is
     on a scale costing L30,000 per annum.It is argued that should the Colony go to war with Masupha
     the other chiefs would hold aloof.A war
     with Masupha means a war with the Basuto nation, with a rising in
     the Transkei, and perhaps in Pondoland, and would affect Natal
     and Her Majesty's Government.The only remedy is the sending up of his Excellency the
     Governor, or of some high neutral officer, to Basutoland, and the
     calling together of the people to decide on their future
     government and connection with Colony.Or, should the British
     Government refuse this small concession, which could not involve
     it, then the Colony should send up an independent Commission to
     meet the Basuto people, and arrange a _modus vivendi_.Whichever
     course is followed it is a _sine qua non_ that the present
     officials in Basutoland should be relieved at once, as they have
     lost the confidence both of Europeans and natives.The Basutos
     desire peace, and it is an error to describe their demeanour as
     aggressive.It is not unnatural that after what they have
     suffered from the hands of Colonial Government they should desire
     at least as nearly as much self-government as the Pondos enjoy.Certainly the present magisterial administration of the Transkei
     is very far from being a blessing, or conducive to peace.Nothing can possibly be worse than the present state of
     affairs in native administration, and the interests of the Colony
     demand a vertebrate government of some sort, whoever it may be
     composed of, instead of the invertebrate formation that is now
     called a government, and which drifts into and creates its own
     difficulties."_P.S._--Should Her Majesty's Government manage to arrange with
     Basutos in a satisfactory manner, 10,000 splendid cavalry could
     be counted on as allies in any contingencies in Natal, etc."The vital part of Gordon's Cape experiences was the Basuto mission,
and as it is desirable that it should not be obscured by other
matters, I will only touch briefly on his work as Commandant-General,
apart from that he performed as Adviser to the Cape Government in the
Basuto difficulty.The post of Commandant-General was forced upon him
in the first weeks of his arrival from the Mauritius by the combined
urgency of Sir Hercules Robinson, the Governor, and Mr Merriman, then
Premier.Much against his inclination, Gordon agreed to fill the post
thus thrust upon him, but only for a time.It entailed an infinity of
work and worry.His instructions were to break up a red-tape system,
and such a task converted every place-holder into his enemy.Still
that opposition rather made his task attractive than otherwise, but in
a little time he found that this opposition would not stop short of
insubordination, and that to achieve success it would be necessary to
cashier a good many officers as a wholesome example.It was while
matters were in this preliminary stage that Mr Merriman's ministry
went out of office, and was succeeded by another under Mr Scanlan.The
measures which were favoured by the one were opposed by the other, and
Gordon soon saw that the desire for a thorough reorganisation of the
Cape forces, which, if properly supported, he could have carried out,
was no longer prevalent among the responsible Ministers.Still he drew
up an elaborate programme for the improvement of the Colonial Regular
forces, by which they might be increased in numbers and improved in
efficiency, at the same time that the annual expenditure was reduced.This document shows that mastery of detail which was one of his most
striking characteristics, and if his advice had been taken, the Cape
would have acquired nearly 4000 troops at no greater cost than it
already expended on 1600.In a second memorandum, he not only showed
the necessity existing for that larger force, but also how, by
administrative alterations in the Transkeian provinces, its cost might
be diminished and most conveniently discharged.Although I do not
quote these two documents, I cannot help saying that Gordon, in the
whole course of his life, never wrote anything more convincing than
the advice he gave the Cape Government, which, owing to local
jealousies and the invincible bulwark of vested interests, was never
carried into effect, although the Basuto question was subsequently
composed on Gordon's lines by the Imperial Government, and there has
been peace there during all the other South African troubles.The closing passages between Gordon and the Cape Ministers need only
be briefly referred to.Gordon resigned because he saw he could do no
good in Basutoland; the Cape Premier accepted his resignation because
Gordon "would not fight the Basutos."The intercommunications were
much more numerous, but that is their pith.Gordon came down to Cape
Town and sailed for England on 14th October, after having been five
and a half months in South Africa.He had been treated by the Cape
authorities without any regard for justice, and little for courtesy.The leading paper even admitted this much when it observed that "at
least General Gordon was entitled to the treatment of a gentleman."But the plain truth was that Gordon was summoned to South Africa and
employed by the Government, not as was ostentatiously proclaimed, and
as he himself believed, for the attainment of a just solution of the
Basuto difficulty, and for the execution of much-needed military
reforms, but in order that his military experience and genius might be
invoked for the purpose of overthrowing Masupha and of annexing
Basutoland, which two years of war and five millions of money had
failed to conquer.Hence their disappointment and resentment when
Gordon proclaimed that justice was on the side of Masupha; that under
no circumstances would he wage war with him; and that the whole origin
of the trouble lay in the bad policy, the incompetent magistrates, and
the insubordinate military officers of the Cape Government.The
indictment was a terrible one; it was also true in every line and
every particular.Having thus vindicated his own character, as well as the highest
principles of Government, Gordon left the Cape a poorer and a wiser
man than he was on his arrival.I have explained the personal loss he
incurred through the inadequacy of his pay and the cutting-off of his
army allowance.It has been stated that when he had taken his passage
for England he was without any money in his pocket, and that he
quaintly said to a friend: "Do you think it is right for a
Major-General of the British Army to set out on a journey like this
without sixpence in his pocket?"There is nothing improbable in such
an occurrence, and it was matched only sixteen months later, when he
was on the point of starting for Khartoum in the same impecunious
condition.Gordon arrived in England on 8th November, and after some
correspondence with the King of the Belgians, which will be referred
to later in connection with the Congo mission, he again left England
on 26th December.On this occasion he was going to carry out a
long-cherished desire to visit and reside in the Holy Land, so that he
might study on the spot the scenes with which his perfect knowledge of
the Bible--his inseparable companion--had made him in an extraordinary
degree familiar.In the best sense of the word, he was going to take a
holiday.There was to be absolute quiet and rest, and at the same time
a congenial occupation.He sailed for Jaffa as a guest on one of Sir
William Mackinnon's steamers, but he at once proceeded to Jerusalem,
where he lived alone, refusing to see any one, with his books as
companions, and "mystifying people as to what he was doing."During
his stay at Jerusalem he entered with much zest and at great length
into the questions of the various sites in the old Jewish capital.I
do not propose to follow the course of his labours in that pursuit, as
several works contain between them, I should say, every line he wrote
on the subject, and the general reader cannot be expected to take any
interest in abstruse and much-debated theological and topographical
questions.But even in the midst of these pursuits he did not lose his
quickness of military perception.After a brief inspection he at once
declared that the Russian Convent commanded the whole city, and was in
itself a strong fortress, capable of holding a formidable garrison,
which Russia could despatch in the guise of priests without any one
being the wiser.From Jerusalem, when the heat became great, he
returned to Jaffa, and his interest aroused in worldly matters by the
progress of events in Egypt, and the development of the Soudan danger,
which he had all along seen coming, was evoked by a project that was
brought under his notice for the construction across Palestine of a
canal to the head of the Gulf of Akabah.In a letter to myself he thus
dilates upon the scheme:--

     "Here is the subject which I am interested in if it could be
     done.The reasons are:--

     "1.We are in Egypt supporting an unpopular sovereign, whose
     tenure ends with departure of our troops.We offer no hope to the
     people of any solace by this support, and by the supporting of
     the Turco-Circassian Pashas, who I know by experience are
     _hopeless_.We neither govern nor take responsibility; yet we
     support these vampires.We are getting mixed up with the question of whether the
     interest of L90,000,000 will be paid or not.We are mixed up with the Soudan, where we provoked the
     rebellion, and of the responsibility of which government we
     cannot rid ourselves.We are in constant and increasing hot water with the French,
     and we gain no benefit from it, for the Canal will remain theirs.*       *       *       *       *

     "On the other hand, if we get a Firman from Sultan for the
     Palestine Canal--

     "1.We lose the sacred sites of Jordan River, Capernaum,
     Bethsaida, and Tiberias, Jericho, not Engedi.We swamp a notoriously unhealthy valley, where there are no
     missions.We cut off the pest of the country of Palestine, the
     Bedouins.We are free of all four objections _in re_ occupation of
     Egypt.We gain the fertile lands of Moab and Ammon.Cyprus is 150 miles from the Mediterranean _debouche_.We get a waterway for large ships to within fifty miles of
     Damascus.We can never be bothered by any internal commotion, except
     for the twenty-five miles from Haifa to Tiberias, for the
     waterway of the Canal would be ten miles wide, except in Arabah
     Valley, where there are on both sides wastes and deserts.We get rid of unhealthiness of a narrow cut with no current,
     which is the case with Suez Canal now, where the mud is
     pestilential from ships' refuse and no current.It would isolate Palestine, render it quiet from Bedouins;
     it would pave the way to its being like Belgium, under no Great
     Power, for religious views would be against Palestine ever being
     owned by a Great Power.Up the ladder of Tyre to Gaza would be 10,000 square miles;
     population 130,000, quite a small country."Do not quote me if you write this.Oddly enough, Ezekiel xlvii.10 seems to say the Dead Sea shall have fish like the great Sea
     (_i.e._ Mediterranean).speaks of two rivers, one
     going to Dead Sea, the other to Mediterranean."The cost would be--

          Canal from Haifa to Jordan,            L2,000,000
          Compensation to Jordan peoples,         1,000,000
          Canal through Akabah,                   6,000,000
          Ports at Haifa,                         1,000,000
          Ports at Akabah,                          500,000
                                                ___________

                                                L10,500,000
                                                ===========

     say, twelve to fifteen millions, and what a comfort to be free of
     Egypt and Soudan for ever!"Revenue, Palestine, L120,000, of which L80,000 goes to Sultan.Do not quote _me_, for I have written part of this to Mr W.(the
     late Sir William) Mackinnon of B.I.S.N.C., besides which H.M.You may say you had a letter from a
     correspondent."He wrote in a similar strain to other correspondents, but I have never
succeeded in discovering whether, from an engineering point of view,
the scheme was at all feasible.It seems to me that its suggestion is
somewhat destructive of Gordon's own declarations as to the superior
merits of the Cape route, nor does Sir Henry Gordon much strengthen
the case when, perceiving the inconsistency, he goes out of his way to
declare that Gordon only meant the Palestine canal to be a commercial
route.Any attempt to limit its usefulness could not destroy the
character claimed for it by its promoters, as an equally short and
more secure route than that by Suez.Yet it needs no gift of second
sight to predict that when any project of rivalry to the masterpiece
of Lesseps is carried out, it will be by rail to the Persian Gulf,
whether the starting-point be the Bosphorus or the Levant.In the midst of his interesting researches near Mount Carmel, a
summons from the outer world reached Gordon in the form of a letter
from Sir William Mackinnon, telling him that the King of the Belgians
now called on him to fulfil a promise he had made some years before.When Gordon first returned from the Cape the King of the Belgians
wrote, reminding him of his old promise, dating from 1880, to enter
into his service on the Congo, and stating that the difficulty of
having an internationally recognised Congo flag, which Gordon had made
a _sine qua non_ of his appointment, could be most speedily solved by
Gordon joining him as counsellor at once.This Gordon could not agree
to, and he went to Palestine, there to await the King's summons,
which came by Sir William Mackinnon's note in October 1883.It then
became necessary for Gordon to obtain the official permission of his
Government to take up this post, of the exact nature of which the
Foreign Office had been already informed, both by General Gordon and
King Leopold.Gordon at once telegraphed to the War Office for the leave rendered
necessary by his being on the active list, and that Department
replied, asking for particulars.When these were furnished through the
Foreign Office the decision was announced that "the Secretary of State
declines to sanction your employment on the Congo."The telegraph
clerk, more discerning or considerate than Her Majesty's Government,
altered "declines" into "decides," and Gordon, in happy ignorance of
the truth, proceeded with all possible despatch _via_ Acre and Genoa
to Brussels, which he reached on New Year's Day, 1884.That very night
he wrote me a short note saying, "I go (_D.V._) next month to the
Congo, but keep it secret."Such things cannot be kept secret, and
four days later a leading article in _The Times_ informed his
countrymen of Gordon's new mission.On reaching Brussels the mistake in the telegram was discovered, and
Gordon here learnt that his Congo mission was vetoed.Then came the
difficulty to know what was to be done.Without leave he could not go
anywhere without resigning his commission; he was not qualified for a
pension, and there were engagements he had voluntarily contracted that
he would not see broken, and persons who would suffer by his death,
whose interests he was in every way bound to safeguard.Therefore, if
he was to carry out his engagement with the King of the Belgians, it
was obviously necessary that he should resign the British Army, and
that the King should compensate him for his loss.The King said at
once: "Retire from the army and I will compensate you," but in a
matter of such importance to others Gordon felt nothing should be left
to chance, and that a definite contract should be made.For this he
had neither the patience nor the business knowledge, and he delegated
the task of arranging the matter to his brother, Sir Henry Gordon, who
negotiated with the late Sir William Mackinnon as representing the
King.They agreed that the value of Gordon's pension if commuted would
be L7288, and the King of the Belgians was to provide that sum, which
was to be paid into a trust fund.In this and every other matter the
King behaved towards Gordon in the most generous and cordial manner,
furnishing a marked contrast with the grudging and parsimonious spirit
of the British Government towards Gordon in China, at the Cape, and
now again when destined for the Congo.All the arrangements connected with this subject were made in three
days, and while Gordon gave instructions for his will to be prepared
for the disposal of the trust fund after his death, he wrote the same
day (6th January) to Mr H. M. Stanley, then acting for the King on the
Congo, announcing his own appointment, offering to "serve willingly
with or under him," and fixing his own departure from Lisbon for 5th
of February._Dis aliter visum._ For the moment he worked up some
enthusiasm in his task."We will kill the slave-traders in their
haunts"; and again, "No such efficacious means of cutting at root of
slave trade ever was presented as that which God has, I trust, opened
out to us through the kind disinterestedness of His Majesty," are
passages in the same letter, yet all the time there is no doubt his
heart and his thoughts were elsewhere.They were in the Soudan, not on
the Congo.The night of this letter he crossed from Brussels, and went straight
to his sister's house, long the residence, and, practically speaking,
the home of his family, 5 Rockstone Place, Southampton.On the 7th of
the month--that is, the same day as he arrived--he wrote the formal
letter requesting leave to resign his commission in the Queen's army,
and also stating, with his usual candour, that King Leopold II.had
guaranteed him against any pecuniary loss.To that letter it may at
once be stated that no reply was ever sent.Even the least sympathetic
official could not feel altogether callous to a voluntary proposition
to remove the name of "Chinese" Gordon from the British army list, and
the sudden awakening of the public to the extraordinary claims of
General Gordon on national gratitude, and his special fitness to deal
with the Soudan difficulty warned the authorities that a too rigid
application of office rules would not in his case be allowed.By no
individual effort, as has been too lightly granted by some writers,
but by the voice of the British people was it decided that not only
should Gordon have leave to go to the Congo, without resigning his
commission, but also that he should be held entitled to draw his pay
as a British general while thus employed.But this was not the whole
truth, although I have no doubt that the arrangement would have been
carried out in any case.In their dilemma the Government saw a chance
of extrication in the person of Gordon, the one man recognised by the
public and the press as capable of coping with a difficulty which
seemed too much for them.The whole truth, therefore, was that the
Congo mission was to wait until after Gordon had been sent to, and
returned from, the Soudan.He was then to be placed by the British
Government entirely at the disposal of the King of the Belgians.As
this new arrangement turned on the assent of the King, it was vital to
keep it secret during the remainder of the 15th and the whole of the
16th of that eventful January.When Gordon arrived at Waterloo Station, at a little before two
o'clock on 15th January, and was met there by myself, I do not think
that he knew definitely what was coming, but he was a man of
extraordinary shrewdness, and although essentially unworldly, could
see as clearly and as far through a transaction as the keenest man of
business.What he did know was that the army authorities were going to
treat him well, but his one topic of conversation the whole way to
Pall Mall was not the Congo but the Soudan.To the direct question
whether he was not really going, as I suspected, to the Nile instead
of the Congo, he declared he had no information that would warrant
such an idea, but still, if the King of the Belgians would grant the
permission, he would certainly not be disinclined to go there first.I
have no doubt that those who acted in the name of the Ministry in a
few minutes discovered the true state of his mind, and that Gordon
then and there agreed, on the express request of the Government of Mr
Gladstone, to go and see the King, and beg him to suspend the
execution of his promise until he had gone to the Soudan to arrest the
Mahdi's career, or to relieve the Egyptian garrisons, if the phrase be
preferred.It should also be stated that Gordon's arrangement with the
King of the Belgians was always coupled with this proviso, "provided
the Government of my own country does not require my services."The
generosity of that sovereign in the matter of the compensation for his
Commission did not render that condition void, and however irritating
the King may have found the circumstances, Gordon broke neither the
spirit nor the letter of his engagement with his Majesty by obeying
the orders of his own Government.Late the same evening I was present at his brother's house to receive
an account for publication of his plans on the Congo, but surrounded
by so large a number of his relatives summoned to see their hero, many
of them for the last time, it was neither convenient nor possible to
carry out this task, which was accordingly postponed till the
following morning, when I was to see him at the Charing Cross Hotel,
and accompany him by the early boat train to Dover.On that night his
last will was signed and witnessed by his uncle, Mr George Enderby,
and myself.The next morning I was at the hotel before seven, but
instead of travelling by this early train, he postponed his departure
till ten o'clock, and the greater part of those three hours were given
to an explanation, map in hand, of his plans on the Congo.The
article, based on his information, appeared in _The Times_ of 17th
January 1884, but several times during our conversation he exclaimed,
"There may be a respite," but he refused to be more definite.Thus he
set out for Brussels, whether he was accompanied by his friend
Captain (now Colonel) F. Brocklehurst, who was undoubtedly acting as
the representative of the authorities.I believe I may say with
confidence that if he did not actually see the King of the Belgians on
the evening of the same day, some communication passed indirectly,
which showed the object of his errand, for although his own letter
communicating the event is dated 17th, from Brussels, it is a fact
within my own knowledge that late in the evening of the 16th a
telegram was received--"Gordon goes to the Soudan."The first intimation of something having happened that his brother Sir
Henry Gordon received, was in a hurried letter, dated 17th January,
which arrived by the early post on Friday, 18th, asking him to "get
his uniform ready and some patent leather boots," but adding, "I saw
King Leopold to-day; he is furious."Even then Sir Henry, although he
guessed his destination, did not know that his departure would be so
sudden, for Gordon crossed the same night, and was kept at
Knightsbridge Barracks in a sort of honourable custody by Captain
Brocklehurst, so that the new scheme might not be prematurely
revealed.Sir Henry, a busy man, went about his own work, having seen
to his brother's commission, and it was not until his return at five
o'clock that he learnt all, and that Gordon was close at hand.He at
once hurried off to see him, and on meeting, Gordon, in a high state
of exhilaration, exclaimed, "I am off to the Soudan."and back came the reply, "To-night!"To him at that moment it meant congenial work and the chance of
carrying out the thoughts that had been surging through his mind ever
since Egyptian affairs became troubled and the Mahdi's power rose on
the horizon of the Soudan.He
was to learn in his own person the weakness and falseness of his
Government, and to find himself betrayed by the very persons who had
only sought his assistance in the belief that by a miracle--and
nothing less would have sufficed--he might relieve them from
responsibilities to which they were not equal.Far better would it
have been, not only for Gordon's sake, but even for the reputation of
England, if he had carried out his original project on the Congo,
where, on a less conspicuous scene than the Nile, he might still have
fought and won the battle of humanity.I am placed in a position to state that on the morning of the 17th, at
10 A.M., he wrote to his sister from Brussels, as follows--"Do not
mention it, but there is just a chance I may have to go to Soudan for
two months, and then go to Congo," and again in a second letter at two
o'clock, "Just got a telegram from Wolseley saying, 'Come back to
London by evening train,' so when you get this I shall be in town,
_but keep it a dead secret_, for I hope to leave it again the same
evening.I will not take Governor-Generalship again, I will only
report on situation."After this came a post-card--18th January, 6
A.M."Left B., am now in London; I hope to go back again to-night."That he was not detained the whole day in the Barracks is shown in the
following letter, now published for the first time, which gives the
only account of his interview with the members of the Government that
sent him out:--

                                                       "19."MY DEAR AUGUSTA,--I arrived in town very tired, at 6 A.M.yesterday, went with Brocklehurst to Barracks, washed, and went
     to Wolseley.He said Ministers would see me at 3 P.M.I went back
     to Barracks and reposed.I
     went with him and saw Granville, Hartington, Dilke, and
     Northbrook.They said, 'Had I seen Wolseley, and did I understand
     their ideas?'I said 'Yes,' and repeated what Wolseley had said
     to me as to their ideas, which was '_they would evacuate
     Soudan_.'They were pleased, and said 'That was their idea; would
     I go?'I said 'To-night,' and it
     was over.The Duke of Cambridge and
     Lord Wolseley came to see me off.I saw Henry and Bob (R. F.
     Gordon); no one else except Stokes--all very kind.I have taken
     Stewart with me, a nice fellow.We are now in train near Mont
     Cenis.I am not moved a bit, and hope to do the people good.Lord
     Granville said Ministers were very much obliged to me.I said I
     was much honoured by going.I telegraphed King of the Belgians at
     once, and told him 'Wait a few months.'Kindest love to
     all.--Your affectionate brother,

                                             "C. G.As further evidence of the haste of his departure, I should like to
mention that he had hardly any clothes with him, and that Mrs Watson,
wife of his friend Colonel Watson, procured him all he required--in
fact, fitted him out--during the two days he stayed at Cairo.These
kindly efforts on his behalf were thrown away, for all his
baggage--clothes, uniforms, orders, etc.--was captured with the money
at Berber and never reached him.His only insignia of office at
Khartoum was the Fez, and the writer who described him as putting on
his uniform when the Mahdists broke into the town was gifted with more
imagination than love of truth.When Gordon left Egypt, at the end of the year 1879, he was able to
truthfully declare in the words of his favourite book: "No man could
lift his hand or his foot in the land of the Soudan without me."Yet
he was fully alive to the dangers of the future, although then they
were no more than a little cloud on the horizon, for he wrote in 1878:
"Our English Government lives on a hand-to-mouth policy.They are very
ignorant of these lands, yet some day or other, they or some other
Government, will have to know them, for things at Cairo cannot stay as
they are.The Khedive will be curbed in, and will no longer be
absolute Sovereign.Then will come the question of these countries....
There is no doubt that if the Governments of France and England do not
pay more attention to the Soudan--if they do not establish at Khartoum
a branch of the mixed tribunals, and see that justice is done--the
disruption of the Soudan from Cairo is only a question of time.This
disruption, moreover, will not end the troubles, for the Soudanese
through their allies in Lower Egypt--the black soldiers I mean--will
carry on their efforts in Cairo itself.Now these black soldiers are
the only troops in the Egyptian service that are worth anything."The
gift of prophecy could scarcely have been demonstrated in a more
remarkable degree, yet the Egyptian Government and everybody else went
on acting as if there was no danger in the Soudan, and treated it like
a thoroughly conquered province inhabited by a satisfied, or at least
a thoroughly subjected population.From this dream there was to be a
rude and startling awakening.It is impossible to say whether there was any connection direct or
indirect between the revolt of Arabi Pasha and the military leaders at
Cairo and the rebellion in the Soudan, which began under the auspices
of the so-called Mahdi.At the very least it may be asserted that the
spectacle of successful insubordination in the Delta--for it was
completely successful, and would have continued so but for the
intervention of British arms--was calculated to encourage those who
entertained a desire to upset the Khedive's authority in the upper
regions of the Nile.That Gordon held that the authors of the Arabi
rising and of the Mahdist movement were the same in sympathy, if not
in person, cannot be doubted, and in February 1882, when the Mahdi had
scarcely begun his career, he wrote: "If they send the Black regiment
to the Soudan to quell the revolt, they will inoculate all the troops
up there, and the Soudan will revolt against Cairo, whom they all
hate."It will be noted that that letter was written more than twenty
months before the destruction of the Hicks Expedition made the Mahdi
master of the Soudan.It was in the year 1880 that the movements of a Mahommedan dervish,
named Mahomed Ahmed, first began to attract the attention of the
Egyptian officials.He had quarrelled with and repudiated the
authority of the head of his religious order, because he tolerated
such frivolous practices as dancing and singing.His boldness in this
matter, and his originality in others, showed that he was pursuing a
course of his own, and to provide for his personal security, as well
as for convenience in keeping up his communications with Khartoum and
other places, he fixed his residence on an islet in the White Nile
near Kawa.Mahomed Ahmed was a native of the lower province of
Dongola, and as such was looked upon with a certain amount of contempt
by the other races of the Soudan.When he quarrelled with his
religious leader he was given the opprobrious name of "a wretched
Dongolawi," but the courage with which he defied and exposed an
arch-priest for not rigidly abiding by the tenets of the Koran,
redounded so much to his credit that the people began to talk of this
wonderful dervish quite as much as of the Khedive's Governor-General.Many earnest and energetic Mahommedans flocked to him, and among these
was the present Khalifa Abdullah, whose life had been spared by
Zebehr, and who in return had wished to proclaim that leader of the
slave-hunters Mahdi.To his instigation was probably due not merely
the assumption of that title by Mahomed Ahmed, but the addition of a
worldly policy to what was to have been a strictly religious
propaganda.Little as he deemed there was to fear from this ascetic, the Egyptian
Governor-General Raouf, Gordon's successor, and stigmatised by him as
the Tyrant of Harrar, became curious about him, and sent someone to
interview and report upon this new religious teacher.The report
brought back was that he was "a madman," and it was at once considered
safe to treat him with indifference.Such was the position in the year
1880, and the official view was only modified a year later by the
receipt of information that the gathering on the island of Abba had
considerably increased, and that Mahomed Ahmed was attended by an
armed escort, who stood in his presence with drawn swords.It was at
this time too that he began to declare that he had a divine mission,
and took unto himself the style of Mahdi--the long-expected messenger
who was to raise up Islam--at first secretly among his chosen friends,
but not so secretly that news of his bold step did not reach the ears
of Raouf.The assumption of such a title, which placed its holder
above and beyond the reach of such ordinary commands as are conveyed
in the edicts of a Khedive or a Sultan, convinced Raouf that the time
had come to put an end to these pretensions.That conviction was not
diminished when Mahomed Ahmed made a tour through Kordofan, spreading
a knowledge of his name and intentions, and undoubtedly winning over
many adherents to his cause.On his return to Abba he found a summons
from the Governor-General to come to Khartoum.That summons was
followed by the arrival of a steamer, the captain of which had orders
to capture the False Mahdi alive or dead.Mahomed Ahmed received warning from his friends and sympathisers that
if he went to Khartoum he might consider himself a dead man.He
probably never had the least intention of going there, and what he had
seen of the state of feeling in the Soudan, where the authority of the
Khedive was neither popular nor firmly established, rendered him more
inclined to defy the Egyptians.When the delegate of Raouf Pasha
therefore appeared before him, Mahomed Ahmed was surrounded by such an
armed force as precluded the possibility of a violent seizure of his
person, and when he resorted to argument to induce him to come to
Khartoum, Mahomed Ahmed, throwing off the mask, and standing forth in
the self-imposed character of Mahdi, exclaimed: "By the grace of God
and His Prophet I am the master of this country, and never shall I go
to Khartoum to justify myself."After this picturesque defiance it only remained for him and the
Egyptians to prove which was the stronger.It must be admitted that Raouf at once recognised the gravity of the
affair, and without delay he sent a small force on Gordon's old
steamer, the _Ismailia_, to bring Mahomed Ahmed to reason.By its numbers and the superior armament of the troops
this expedition should have proved a complete success, and a competent
commander would have strangled the Mahdist phenomenon at its birth.Unfortunately the Egyptian officers were grossly incompetent, and
divided among themselves.They attempted a night attack, and as they
were quite ignorant of the locality, it is not surprising that they
fell into the very trap they thought to set for their opponents.In the confusion the divided Egyptian forces fired upon each other,
and the Mahdists with their swords and short stabbing spears completed
the rest.Of two whole companies of troops only a handful escaped by
swimming to the steamer, which returned to Khartoum with the news of
this defeat.Even this reverse was very far from ensuring the triumph
of Mahomed Ahmed, or the downfall of the Egyptian power; and, indeed,
the possession of steamers and the consequent command of the Nile
navigation rendered it extremely doubtful whether he could long hold
his own on the island of Abba.He thought so himself, and, gathering
his forces together, marched to the western districts of Kordofan,
where, at Jebel Gedir, he established his headquarters.A special
reason made him select that place, for it is believed by Mahommedans
that the Mahdi will first appear at Jebel Masa in North Africa, and
Mahomed Ahmed had no scruple in declaring that the two places were the
same.To complete the resemblance he changed with autocratic pleasure
the name Jebel Gedir into Jebel Masa.During this march several attempts were made to capture him by the
local garrisons, but they were all undertaken in such a half-hearted
manner, and so badly carried out, that the Mahdi was never in any
danger, and his reputation was raised by the failure of the
Government.Once established at Jebel Gedir the Mahdi began to organise his forces
on a larger scale, and to formulate a policy that would be likely to
bring all the tribes of the Soudan to his side.While thus employed
Rashed Bey, Governor of Fashoda, resolved to attack him.Rashed is
entitled to the credit of seeing that the time demanded a signal, and
if possible, a decisive blow, but he is to be censured for the
carelessness and over-confidence he displayed in carrying out his
scheme.Although he had a strong force he should have known that the
Mahdi's followers were now numbered by the thousand, and that he was
an active and enterprising foe.But he neglected the most simple
precautions, and showed that he had no military skill.The Mahdi fell
upon him during his march, killed him, his chief officers, and 1400
men, and the small body that escaped bore testimony to the formidable
character of the victor's fighting power.This battle was fought on
9th December 1881, and the end of that year therefore beheld the firm
establishment of the Mahdi's power in a considerable part of the
Soudan; but even then the superiority of the Egyptian resources was so
marked and incontestable that, properly handled, they should have
sufficed to speedily overwhelm him.At this juncture Raouf was succeeded as Governor-General by
Abd-el-Kader Pasha, who had held the same post before Gordon, and who
had gained something of a reputation from the conquest of Darfour, in
conjunction with Zebehr.At least he ought to have known the Soudan,
but the dangers which had been clear to the eye of Gordon were
concealed from him and his colleagues.Still, the first task
he set himself--and indeed it was the justification of his
re-appointment--was to retrieve the disaster to Rashed, and to destroy
the Mahdi's power.He therefore collected a force of not less than
4000 men, chiefly trained infantry, and he entrusted the command to
Yusuf Pasha, a brave officer, who had distinguished himself under
Gessi in the war with Suleiman.This force left Khartoum in March
1882, but it did not begin its inland march from the Nile until the
end of May, when it had been increased by at least 2000 irregular
levies raised in Kordofan.Unfortunately, Yusuf was just as
over-confident as Rashed had been.He neglected all precautions, and
derided the counsel of those who warned him that the Mahdi's followers
might prove a match for his well-armed and well-drilled troops.After
a ten days' march he reached the neighbourhood of the Mahdi's
position, and he was already counting on a great victory, when, at
dawn of day on 7th June, he was himself surprised by his opponent in a
camp that he had ostentatiously refused to fortify in the smallest
degree.Some of the local
irregulars escaped, but of the regular troops and their commanders not
one.This decisive victory not merely confirmed the reputation of the
Mahdi, and made most people in the Soudan believe that he was really a
heaven-sent champion, but it also exposed the inferiority of the
Government troops and the Khedive's commanders.The defeat of Yusuf may be said to have been decisive so far as the
active forces of the Khedive in the field were concerned, but the
towns held out, and El Obeid, the capital of Kordofan, in particular
defied all the Mahdi's efforts to take it.The possession of this and
other strong places furnished the supporters of the Government with a
reasonable hope that on the arrival of fresh troops the ground lost
might be recovered, and an end put to what threatened to become a
formidable rebellion.Unfortunately, it was one that the Mahdi turned to the best advantage
by drilling and arming his troops, and summoning levies from the more
distant parts of the provinces, while the Khedive's Government,
engrossed in troubles nearer home--the Arabi revolt and the
intervention of England in the internal administration--seemed
paralysed in its efforts to restore its authority over the Soudan,
which at that moment would have been comparatively easy.The only
direct result of Yusuf's defeat in June 1882 was that two of the Black
regiments were sent up to Khartoum, and as their allegiance to the
Government was already shaken, their presence, as Gordon apprehended,
was calculated to aggravate rather than to improve the situation.Matters remained very much in this state until the Mahdi's capture of
the important town of El Obeid.Notwithstanding the presence within
the walls of an element favourable to the Mahdi, the Commandant, Said
Pasha, made a valiant and protracted defence.He successfully repelled
all the Mahdi's attempts to take the place by storm, but he had to
succumb to famine after all the privations of a five months' siege.If
there had been other men like Said Pasha, especially at Khartoum, the
power of the Mahdi would never have risen to the height it attained.The capture of an important place like El Obeid did more for the
spread of the Mahdi's reputation and power than the several victories
he had gained in the field.This important event took place in January
1883.Abd-el-Kader was then removed from the Governor-Generalship, and
a successor found in Alla-ed-din, a man of supposed energy and
resource.More than that, an English officer--Colonel Hicks--was given
the military command, and it was decided to despatch an expedition of
sufficient strength, as it was thought, to crush the Mahdi at one
blow.The preparations for this fresh advance against the Mahdi were made
with care, and on an extensive scale.Several regiments were sent from
Egypt, and in the spring of the year a permanent camp was established
for their accommodation at Omdurman, on the western bank of the Nile,
opposite Khartoum.Here, by the end of June 1883, was assembled a
force officially computed to number 7000 infantry, 120 cuirassiers,
300 irregular cavalry, and not fewer than 30 pieces of artillery,
including rockets and mortars.Colonel Hicks was given the nominal
command, several English and other European officers were appointed
to serve under him, and the Khedive specially ordered the
Governor-General to accompany the expedition that was to put an end to
the Mahdi's triumph.Such was the interest, and, it may be added,
confidence, felt in the expedition, that two special correspondents,
one of whom was Edmond O'Donovan, who had made himself famous a few
years earlier by reaching the Turcoman stronghold of Merv, were
ordered to accompany it, and report its achievements.The Mahdi learnt in good time of the extensive preparations being made
for this expedition, but he was not dismayed, because all the fighting
tribes of Kordofan, Bahr Gazelle, and Darfour were now at his back,
and he knew that he could count on the devotion of 100,000 fanatical
warriors.Still, he and his henchman Abdullah, who supplied the
military brains to the cause, were not disposed to throw away a
chance, and the threatening appearance of the Egyptian military
preparations led them to conceive the really brilliant idea of
stirring up trouble in the rear of Khartoum.For this purpose a man
of extraordinary energy and influence was ready to their hand in Osman
Digma, a slave-dealer of Souakim, who might truly be called the Zebehr
of the Eastern Soudan.This man hastened to Souakim as the delegate of
the Mahdi, from whom he brought special proclamations, calling on the
tribes to rise for a Holy War.Although this move subsequently
aggravated the Egyptian position and extended the military triumphs of
the Mahdi, it did not attain the immediate object for which it was
conceived, as the Hicks Expedition set out on its ill-omened march
before Osman had struck a blow.The power of the Mahdi was at this moment so firmly established, and
his reputation based on the double claim of a divine mission and
military success so high that it may be doubted whether the 10,000
men, of which the Hicks force consisted when the irregulars raised by
the Governor-General had joined it at Duem, would have sufficed to
overcome him even if they had been ably led, and escaped all the
untoward circumstances that first retarded their progress and then
sealed their fate.The plan of campaign was based on a misconception
of the Mahdi's power, and was carried out with utter disregard of
prudence and of the local difficulties to be encountered between the
Nile and El Obeid.But the radical fault of the whole enterprise was a
strategical one.The situation made it prudent and even necessary for
the Government to stand on the defensive, and to abstain from military
expeditions, while the course pursued was to undertake offensive
measures in the manner most calculated to favour the chances of the
Mahdi, and to attack him at the very point where his superiority could
be most certainly shown.But quite apart from any original error as to the inception of the
campaign, which may fairly be deemed a matter of opinion, there can be
no difference between any two persons who have studied the facts that
the execution of it was completely mismanaged.In the first place the
start of the expedition was delayed, so that the Mahdi got ample
warning of the coming attack.The troops were all in the camp at
Omdurman in June, but they did not reach Duem till September, and a
further delay of two months occurred there before they began their
march towards El Obeid.That interval was chiefly taken up with
disputes between Hicks and his Egyptian colleagues, and it is even
believed that there was much friction between Hicks and his European
lieutenants.The first radical error committed was the decision to advance on El
Obeid from Duem, because there were no wells on that route, whereas
had the northern route _via_ Gebra and Bara been taken, a certain
supply of water could have been counted on, and still more important,
the co-operation of the powerful Kabbabish tribe, the only one still
hostile to the Mahdi, might have been secured.The second important
error was not less fatal.When the force marched it was accompanied by
6000 camels and a large number of women.Encumbered in its movements
by these useless impedimenta, the force never had any prospect of
success with its active enemy.As it slowly advanced from the Nile it
became with each day's march more hopelessly involved in its own
difficulties, and the astute Mahdi expressly forbade any premature
attack to be made upon an army which he clearly saw was marching to
its doom.On the 1st November 1883, when the Egyptians were already disheartened
by the want of water, the non-arrival of reinforcements from the
garrisons near the Equator, which the Governor-General had rashly
promised to bring up, and the exhausting nature of their march through
a difficult country, the Mahdi's forces began their attack.Concealed
in the high grass, they were able to pour in a heavy fire on the
conspicuous body of the Egyptians at short range without exposing
themselves.But notwithstanding his heavy losses, Hicks pressed on,
because he knew that his only chance of safety lay in getting out of
the dense cover in which he was at such a hopeless disadvantage.But
this the Mahdi would never permit, and on 4th November, when Hicks had
reached a place called Shekan, he gave the order to his impatient
followers to go in and finish the work they had so well begun.The
Egyptian soldiers seem to have been butchered without resistance.The
Europeans and the Turkish cavalry fought well for a short time, but in
a few minutes they were overpowered by superior numbers.Of the whole
force of 10,000 men, only a few individuals escaped by some special
stroke of fortune, for nearly the whole of the 300 prisoners taken
were subsequently executed.Such was the complete and appalling
character of the destruction of Hicks's army, which seemed to shatter
at a single blow the whole fabric of the Khedive's power in the
Soudan, and rivetted the attention of Europe on that particular
quarter of the Dark Continent.The consequences of that decisive success, which became known in
London three weeks after it happened, were immediate throughout the
region wherein it occurred.Many Egyptian garrisons, which had been
holding out in the hope of succour through the force that Hicks Pasha
was bringing from Khartoum, abandoned hope after its destruction at
Shekan, and thought only of coming to terms with the conqueror.Among
these was the force at Dara in Darfour under the command of Slatin
Pasha.That able officer had held the place for months under the
greatest difficulty, and had even obtained some slight successes in
the field, but the fate of the Hicks expedition convinced him that the
situation was hopeless, and that his duty to the brave troops under
him required the acceptance of the honourable terms which his tact and
reputation enabled him to secure at the hands of the conqueror.Slatin
surrendered on 23rd December 1883; Lupton Bey, commander in the Bahr
Gazelle, about the same time, and these successes were enhanced and
extended by those achieved by Osman Digma in the Eastern Soudan,
where, early in February 1884, while Gordon was on his way to
Khartoum, that leader inflicted on Baker Pasha at Tokar a defeat
scarcely less crushing than that of Shekan.By New Year's Day, 1884, therefore, the power of the Mahdi was
triumphantly established over the whole extent of the Soudan, from the
Equator to Souakim, with the exception of Khartoum and the middle
course of the Nile from that place to Dongola.There were also some
outlying garrisons, such as that at Kassala, but the principal
Egyptian force remaining was the body of 4000 so-called troops, the
less efficient part, we may be sure, of those available, left behind
at Khartoum, under Colonel de Coetlogon, by Hicks Pasha, when he set
out on his unfortunate expedition.If the power of the Mahdi at this
moment were merely to be measured by comparison with the collapse of
authority, courage, and confidence of the titular upholders of the
Khedive's Government, it might be pronounced formidable.It had
sufficed to defeat every hostile effort made against it, and to
practically annihilate all the armies that Egypt could bring into the
field.Its extraordinary success was no doubt due to the incompetency,
over-confidence, and deficient military spirit and knowledge of the
Khedive's commanders and troops.But, while making the fullest
admission on these points, it cannot be disputed that some of the
elements in the Mahdi's power would have made it formidable, even if
the cause of the Government had been more worthily and efficiently
sustained.There is no doubt that, in the first place, he appealed to
races which thought they were overtaxed, and to classes whose only
tangible property had been assailed and diminished by the Anti-Slavery
policy of the Government.Even if it would be going too far to say
that Mahomed Ahmed, the long-looked-for Mahdi, was only a tool in the
hands of secret conspirators pledged to avenge Suleiman, to restore
Zebehr, and to bring back the good old times, when a fortune lay in
the easy acquisition of human ivory, there is no doubt that the
backbone of his power was provided by those followers of Suleiman,
whom Gordon had broken up at Shaka and driven from Dara.But the
Mahdi had supplied them in religious fanaticism with a more powerful
incentive than pecuniary gain, and when he showed them how easily they
might triumph over their opponents, he inspired them with a confidence
which has not yet lost its efficacy.In 1884 all these inducements for the tribes of the Soudan to believe
in their religious leader were in their pristine strength.He had
succeeded in every thing he undertook, he had armed his countless
warriors with the weapons taken from the armies he had destroyed, and
he had placed at the disposal of his supporters an immense and
easily-acquired spoil.The later experiences of the Mahdists were to
be neither so pleasant nor so profitable, but at the end of 1883 they
were at the height of their confidence and power.It was at such a
moment and against such a powerful adversary that the British
Government thought it right to take advantage of the devotion and
gallantry of a single man, to send him alone to grapple with a
difficulty which several armies had, by their own failure and
destruction, rendered more grave, at the same time that they
established the formidable nature of the rebellion in the Soudan as an
unimpeachable fact instead of a disputable opinion.I do not think his
own countrymen have yet quite appreciated the extraordinary heroism
and devotion to his country which Gordon showed when he rushed off
single-handed to oppose the ever-victorious Mahdi at the very zenith
of his power.In unrolling the scroll of events connected with an intricate history,
it next becomes necessary to explain why Gordon voluntarily, and it
may even be admitted, enthusiastically, undertook a mission that, to
any man in his senses, must have seemed at the moment at which it was
undertaken little short of insanity.Whatever else may be said against
the Government and the military authorities who suggested his going,
and availed themselves of his readiness to go, to Khartoum, I do not
think there is the shadow of a justification for the allegation that
they forced him to proceed on that romantic errand, although of course
it is equally clear that he insisted as the condition of his going at
all that he should be ordered by his Government to proceed on this
mission.Beyond this vital principle, which he held to all his life in
never volunteering, he was far too eager to go himself to require any
real stirring-up or compulsion.It was even a secret and unexpressed
grievance that he should not be called upon to hasten to the spot,
which had always been in his thoughts since the time he had left it.He could think of nothing else; in the midst of other work he would
turn aside to discuss the affairs of Egypt and the Soudan as paramount
to every other consideration; and when a great mission, like that to
the Congo, which he could have made a turning-point in African
history, was placed in his hands, he could only ask for "a respite,"
and, with the charm of the Sphinx strong upon him, rushed on his fate
in a chivalrous determination to essay the impossible.But was it
right or justifiable that wise politicians and experienced generals
should take advantage of such enthusiasm and self-sacrifice, and let
one man go unaided to achieve what thousands had failed to do?It is necessary to establish clearly in the first place, and beyond
dispute, the frame of mind which induced Gordon to take up his last
Nile mission in precisely the confiding manner that he did.Gordon
left Egypt at the end of 1879.Although events there in 1880 were of
interest and importance, Gordon was too much occupied in India and
China to say anything, but in October 1881 he drew up an important
memorandum on affairs in Egypt since the deposition of Ismail.Gordon
gave it to me specially for publication, and it duly appeared in _The
Times_, but its historical interest is that it shows how Gordon's
thoughts were still running on the affairs of the country in which he
had served so long.The following is the full text:--

     "On the 16th of August 1879, the Firman installing Tewfik as
     Khedive was published in Cairo.From the 26th of June 1879, when
     Ismail was deposed, to this date, Cherif Pasha remained Prime
     Minister; he had been appointed on the dismissal of the
     Rivers-Wilson and de Blignieres Ministry in May.Between June and
     August Cherif had been working with the view of securing to the
     country a representative form of government, and had only a short
     time before August 16 laid his proposition before Tewfik.Cherif's idea was that, the representation being in the hands of
     the people, there would be more chance of Egypt maintaining her
     independence than if the Government was a personal one.It will
     be remembered that, though many states have repudiated their
     debts, no other ruler of those states was considered responsible
     except in the case of Ismail of Egypt.Europe considered Ismail
     responsible personally.She did not consider the rulers of
     Turkey, Greece, Spain, etc., responsible, so that Cherif was
     quite justified in his proposition.Cherif has been unjustly
     considered opposed to any reform.Certainly he
     had shown his independence in refusing to acknowledge
     Rivers-Wilson as his superior, preferring to give up his position
     to doing so, but he knew well that reform was necessary, and had
     always advised it.Cherif is perhaps the only Egyptian Minister
     whose character for strict integrity is unimpeachable."A thoroughly independent man, caring but little for office or
     its emoluments, of a good family, with antecedents which would
     bear any investigation, he was not inclined to be questioned by
     men whose social position was inferior to his own, and whose
     _parti pris_ was against him.In the Council Chamber he was in a
     minority because he spoke his mind; but this was not so with
     other Ministers, whose antecedents were dubious.Had his advice
     been taken, Ismail would have now been Khedive of Egypt.Any one
     who knows Cherif will agree to this account of him, and will rate
     him as infinitely superior to his other colleagues.He is
     essentially not an intriguer."To return, immediately after the promulgation of the Firman on
     August 16, Tewfik dismisses suddenly Cherif, and the European
     Press considers he has done a bold thing, and, misjudging Cherif,
     praise him for having broken with the advisers who caused the
     ruin of Ismail.My opinion is that Tewfik feared Cherif's
     proposition as being likely to curtail his power as absolute
     ruler, and that he judged that he would by this dismissal gain
     _kudos_ in Europe, and protect his absolute power."After a time Riaz is appointed in Cherif's place, and then
     Tewfik begins his career.He concedes this and that to European
     desires, but in so doing claims for his youth and inexperience
     exemption from any reform which would take from his absolute
     power.Knowing that it was the bondholders who upset his father
     he conciliates them; they in their turn leave him to act as he
     wished with regard to the internal government of the country.Riaz was so placed as to be between two influences--one, the
     bondholders seeking their advantages; the other, Tewfik, seeking
     to retain all power.Knowing better than
     Tewfik the feeling of Europe, he inclines more to the bondholders
     than to Tewfik, to whom, however, he is bound to give some sops,
     such as the Universal Military Service Bill, which the
     bondholders let pass without a word, and which is the root of the
     present troubles.After a time Tewfik finds that Riaz will give
     no more sops, for the simple reason he dares not.Then Tewfik
     finds him _de trop_, and by working up the military element
     endeavours to counterbalance him.The European Powers manage to
     keep the peace for a time, but eventually the military become too
     strong for even Tewfik, who had conjured them up, and taking
     things into their own hands upset Riaz, which Tewfik is glad of,
     and demand a Constitution, which Tewfik is not glad of.Cherif
     then returns, and it is to be hoped will get for the people what
     he demanded before his dismissal."It is against all reason to expect any straightforward dealings
     in any Sultan, Khedive, or Ameer; the only hope is in the people
     they govern, and the raising of the people should be our object."There is no real loyalty towards the descendants of the Sandjak
     of Salonica in Egypt; the people are Arabs, they are Greeks.The
     people care for themselves.It is reiterated over and over again
     that Egypt is prosperous and contented.I do not think it has
     altered at all, except in improving its finances for the benefit
     of the bondholders.The army may be paid regularly, but the lot
     of the fellaheen and inhabitants of the Soudan is the same
     oppressed lot as before.The prisons are as full of unfortunates
     as ever they were, the local tribunals are as corrupt, and Tewfik
     will always oppose their being affiliated to the mixed tribunals
     of Alexandria, and thus afford protection to the judges of the
     local tribunals, should they adjudicate justly.Tewfik is
     essentially one of the Ameer class.I believe he would be willing
     to act uprightly, if by so doing he could maintain his absolute
     power.He has played a difficult game, making stock of his fear
     of his father and of Halim, the legitimate heir according to the
     Moslem, to induce the European Governments to be gentle with him,
     at the same time resisting all measures which would benefit his
     people should these measures touch his absolute power.He is
     liberal only in measures which do not interfere with his
     prerogative."It was inevitable that the present sort of trouble should arise.The Controllers had got the finances in good order, and were
     bound to look to the welfare of the people, which could only be
     done by the curtailment of Tewfik's power.The present
     arrangement of Controllers and Consul-Generals is defective.The
     Consul-Generals are charged with the duty of seeing that the
     country is quiet and the people well treated.They are
     responsible to their Foreign Offices.The Controllers are charged
     with the finances and the welfare of the country, but to whom
     are they responsible?Not to Tewfik; though he pays them, he
     cannot remove them; yet they must get on well with him.Not to
     the Foreign Office, for it is repeatedly said that they are
     Egyptian officials, yet they have to keep on good terms with
     these Foreign Offices.Not to the bondholders, though they are
     bound, considering their power, to be on good terms with them.Not to the inhabitants of Egypt, though these latter are taught
     to believe that every unpopular act is done by the Controllers'
     advice."The only remedy is by the formation of a Council of Notables,
     having direct access to Tewfik, and independent of his or of the
     Ministers' goodwill, and the subjection of the Controllers to the
     Consul-Generals responsible to the Foreign Office--in fact,
     Residents at the Court.This would be no innovation, for the
     supervision exists now, except under the Controllers and
     Consul-Generals.It is simply proposed to amalgamate Controllers
     with Consul-Generals, and to give these latter the position of
     Residents.By this means the continual change of French
     Consul-Generals would be avoided, and the consequent ill-feeling
     between France and England would disappear.Should the Residents
     fall out, the matter would be easily settled by the Governments.As it is at present, a quadruple combat goes on; sometimes it is
     one Consul-General against the other Consul-General, aided by the
     two Controllers, or a Consul-General and one Controller against
     the other Consul-General and the other Controller, in all of
     which combats Tewfik gains and the people lose."One thing should certainly be done--the giving of concessions
     ought not to be in the power of Controllers, nor if
     Consul-Generals are amalgamated with Controllers as Residents
     should these Residents have this power.It ought to be exercised
     by the Council of Notables, who would look to the welfare of the
     people."The progress of events in Lower Egypt during 1881 and 1882 was watched
with great care, whether he was vegetating in the Mauritius or
absorbed in the anxieties and labours of his South African mission.Commenting on the downfall of Arabi, he explained how the despatch of
troops to the Soudan, composed of regiments tainted with a spirit of
insubordination, would inevitably aggravate the situation there.Later
on, in 1883, when he heard of Hicks being sent to take the command and
repair the defeat of Yusuf, he wrote:--"Unless Hicks is given supreme
command he is lost; it can never work putting him in a subordinate
position.Hicks must be made Governor-General, otherwise he will never
end things satisfactorily."At the same time, he came to the
conclusion that there was only one man who could save Egypt, and that
was Nubar Pasha.He wrote:--"If they do not make Nubar Pasha Prime
Minister or Regent in Egypt they will have trouble, as he is the only
man who can rule that country."This testimony to Nubar's capacity is
the more remarkable and creditable, as in earlier days Gordon had not
appreciated the merit of a statesman who has done more for Egypt than
any other of his generation.But at a very early stage of the Soudan
troubles Gordon convinced himself that the radical cause of these
difficulties and misfortunes was not the shortcomings and errors of
any particular subordinate, but the complete want of a definite policy
on the part, not of the Khedive and his advisers, but of the British
Government itself.He wrote on this point to a friend (2nd September
1883), almost the day that Hicks was to march from Khartoum:--

     "Her Majesty's Government, right or wrong, will not take a
     decided step _in re_ Egypt and the Soudan; they drift, but at the
     same time cannot avoid the _onus_ of being the real power in
     Egypt, with the corresponding advantage of being so.It is
     undoubtedly the fact that they maintain Tewfik and the Pashas in
     power against the will of the people; this alone is insufferable
     from disgusting the people, to whom also Her Majesty's Government
     have given no inducement to make themselves popular.Their
     present action is a dangerous one, for without any advantage over
     the Canal or to England, they keep a running sore open with
     France, and are acting in a way which will justify Russia to act
     in a similar way in Armenia, and Austria in Salonica.Further
     than that, Her Majesty's Government must eventually gain the
     odium which will fall upon them when the interest of the debt
     fails to be paid, which will soon be the case.Also, Her
     Majesty's Government cannot possibly avoid the responsibility for
     the state of affairs in the Soudan, where a wretched war drags on
     in a ruined country at a cost of half a million per annum at
     least.I say therefore to avoid all this, _if Her Majesty's
     Government will not act firmly and strongly and take the country_
     (which, if I were they, I would not do), let them attempt to get
     the Palestine Canal made, and quit Egypt to work out its own
     salvation.In doing so lots of anarchy will take place.This
     anarchy is inseparable from a peaceful solution; it is the
     travail in birth.Her Majesty's Government do not prevent anarchy
     now; therefore better leave the country, and thus avoid a
     responsibility which gives no advantage, and is mean and
     dangerous."In a letter to myself, dated 3rd January 1884, from Brussels, he
enters into some detail on matters that had been forgotten or were
insufficiently appreciated, to which the reported appointment of
Zebehr to proceed to the Soudan and stem the Mahdi's advance lent
special interest:--

     "I send you a small note which you can make use of, but I beg you
     will not let my name appear under any circumstances.When in
     London I had printed a pamphlet in Arabic, with all the papers
     (official) concerning Zebehr Pasha and his action in pushing his
     son to rebel.It is not long,
     and would repay translating and publishing.It has all the
     history and the authentic letters found in the divan of Zebehr's
     son when Gessi took his stockade.It is in a cover, blue and
     gold.It was my address to people of Soudan--Apologia.Isaiah
     XIX.19, 20, 21 has a wonderful prophecy about Egypt and the
     saviour who will come from the frontier."The note enclosed was published in _The Times_ of 5th January, and
read as follows:--

     "A correspondent writes that it may seem inexplicable why the
     Mahdi's troops attacked Gezireh, which, as its name signifies, is
     an isle near Berber, but there is an old tradition that the
     future ruler of the Soudan will be from that isle.Zebehr Rahama
     knew this, but he fell on leaving his boat at this isle, and so,
     though the Soudan people looked on him as a likely saviour, this
     omen shook their confidence in him.He was then on his way to
     Cairo after swearing his people to rebel (if he was retained
     there), under a tree at Shaka.Zebehr will most probably be taken
     prisoner by the Mahdi, and will then take the command of the
     Mahdi's forces.The peoples of the Soudan are very superstitious,
     and the fall of the flag by a gust of wind, on the proclamation
     of Tewfik at Khartoum, was looked on as an omen of the end of
     Mehemet Ali's dynasty.There is an old tree opposite Cook's
     office at Jerusalem in Toppet, belonging to an old family, and
     protected by Sultan's Firman, which the Arabs consider will fall
     when the Sultan's rule ends.It lost a large limb during the
     Turco-Russian war, and is now in a decayed state.There can be no
     doubt but that the movement will spread into Palestine, Syria,
     and Hedjaz.At Damascus already proclamations have been posted
     up, denouncing Turks and Circassians, and this was before Hicks
     was defeated.It is the beginning of the end of Turkey.Austria
     backed by Germany will go to Salonica, quieting Russia by letting
     her go into Armenia--England and France neutralising one another."If not too late, the return of the ex-Khedive Ismail to Egypt,
     and the union of England and France to support and control the
     Arab movement, appears the only chance.Ismail would soon come to
     terms with the Soudan, the rebellion of which countries was
     entirely due to the oppression of the Turks and Circassians."These expressions of opinion about Egypt and the Soudan may be said to
have culminated in the remarkable pronouncement Gordon made to Mr W.
T. Stead, the brilliant editor of the _Pall Mall Gazette_, on 8th
January 1884, which appeared in his paper on the following day.The
substance of that statement is as follows:--

     "So you would abandon the Soudan?But the Eastern Soudan is
     indispensable to Egypt.It will cost you far more to retain your
     hold upon Egypt proper if you abandon your hold of the Eastern
     Soudan to the Mahdi or to the Turk than what it would to retain
     your hold upon Eastern Soudan by the aid of such material as
     exists in the provinces.Darfour and Kordofan must be abandoned.That I admit; but the provinces lying to the east of the White
     Nile should be retained, and north of Sennaar.The danger to be
     feared is not that the Mahdi will march northward through Wady
     Halfa; on the contrary, it is very improbable that he will ever
     go so far north.It arises from the influence which the spectacle of a conquering
     Mahommedan Power established close to your frontiers will
     exercise upon the population which you govern.In all the cities
     in Egypt it will be felt that what the Mahdi has done they may
     do; and, as he has driven out the intruder and the infidel, they
     may do the same.Nor is it only England that has to face this
     danger.The success of the Mahdi has already excited dangerous
     fermentation in Arabia and Syria.Placards have been posted in
     Damascus calling upon the population to rise and drive out the
     Turks.If the whole of the Eastern Soudan is surrendered to the
     Mahdi, the Arab tribes on both sides of the Red Sea will take
     fire.In self-defence the Turks are bound to do something to cope
     with so formidable a danger, for it is quite possible that if
     nothing is done the whole of the Eastern Question may be reopened
     by the triumph of the Mahdi.I see it is proposed to fortify Wady
     Halfa, and prepare there to resist the Mahdi's attack.You might
     as well fortify against a fever.Contagion of that kind cannot be
     kept out by fortifications and garrisons.But that it is real,
     and that it does exist, will be denied by no one cognisant with
     Egypt and the East.In self-defence the policy of evacuation
     cannot possibly be justified.You have 6000 men in
     Khartoum.You have garrisons
     in Darfour, in Bahr el Gazelle, and Gondokoro.John went to the hallway.Are they to be
     sacrificed?Their only offence is their loyalty to their
     Sovereign.For their fidelity you are going to abandon them to
     their fate.You say they are to retire upon Wady Halfa.But
     Gondokoro is 1500 miles from Khartoum, and Khartoum is only 350
     from Wady Halfa.How will you move your 6000 men from
     Khartoum--to say nothing of other places--and all the Europeans
     in that city through the desert to Wady Halfa?Where are you
     going to get the camels to take them away?Will the Mahdi supply
     them?If they are to escape with their lives, the garrison will
     not be allowed to leave with a coat on their backs.They will be
     plundered to the skin, and even then their lives may not be
     spared.Whatever you may decide about evacuation, you cannot
     evacuate, because your army cannot be moved.You must either
     surrender absolutely to the Mahdi or defend Khartoum at all
     hazards.The latter is the only course which ought to be
     entertained.The Mahdi's
     forces will fall to pieces of themselves; but if in a moment of
     panic orders are issued for the abandonment of the whole of the
     Eastern Soudan, a blow will be struck against the security of
     Egypt and the peace of the East, which may have fatal
     consequences."The great evil is not at Khartoum, but at Cairo.It is the
     weakness of Cairo which produces disaster in the Soudan.It is
     because Hicks was not adequately supported at the first, but was
     thrust forward upon an impossible enterprise by the men who had
     refused him supplies when a decisive blow might have been struck,
     that the Western Soudan has been sacrificed.The Eastern Soudan
     may, however, be saved if there is a firm hand placed at the helm
     in Egypt."What then, you ask, should be done?I reply, Place Nubar in
     power!Nubar is the one supremely able man among Egyptian
     Ministers.He is proof against foreign intrigue, and he
     thoroughly understands the situation.Place him in power; support
     him through thick and thin; give him a free hand; and let it be
     distinctly understood that no intrigues, either on the part of
     Tewfik or any of Nubar's rivals, will be allowed for a moment to
     interfere with the execution of his plans.You are sure to find
     that the energetic support of Nubar will, sooner or later, bring
     you into collision with the Khedive; but if that Sovereign really
     desires, as he says, the welfare of his country, it will be
     necessary for you to protect Nubar's Administration from any
     direct or indirect interference on his part.Nubar can be
     depended upon: that I can guarantee.He will not take office
     without knowing that he is to have his own way; but if he takes
     office, it is the best security that you can have for the
     restoration of order to the country.Especially is this the case
     with the Soudan.Nubar should be left untrammelled by any
     stipulations concerning the evacuation of Khartoum.There is no
     hurry.The garrisons can hold their own at present.Let them
     continue to hold on until disunion and tribal jealousies have
     worked their natural results in the camp of the Mahdi.Nubar
     should be free to deal with the Soudan in his own way.How he
     will deal with the Soudan, of course, I cannot profess to say;
     but I should imagine that he would appoint a Governor-General at
     Khartoum, with full powers, and furnish him with two millions
     sterling--a large sum, no doubt, but a sum which had much better
     be spent now than wasted in a vain attempt to avert the
     consequences of an ill-timed surrender.Sir Samuel Baker, who
     possesses the essential energy and single tongue requisite for
     the office, might be appointed Governor-General of the Soudan,
     and he might take his brother as Commander-in-Chief."It should be proclaimed in the hearing of all the Soudanese, and
     engraved on tablets of brass, that a permanent Constitution was
     granted to the Soudanese, by which no Turk or Circassian would
     ever be allowed to enter the province to plunder its inhabitants
     in order to fill his own pockets, and that no immediate
     emancipation of slaves would be attempted.Immediate emancipation
     was denounced in 1833 as confiscation in England, and it is no
     less confiscation in the Soudan to-day.Whatever is done in that
     direction should be done gradually, and by a process of
     registration.Mixed tribunals might be established, if Nubar
     thought fit, in which European judges would co-operate with the
     natives in the administration of justice.Police inspectors also
     might be appointed, and adequate measures taken to root out the
     abuses which prevail in the prisons."With regard to Darfour, I should think that Nubar would probably
     send back the family and the heir of the Sultan of Darfour.If
     subsidized by the Government, and sent back with Sir Samuel
     Baker, he would not have much difficulty in regaining possession
     of the kingdom of Darfour, which was formerly one of the best
     governed of African countries.As regards Abyssinia, the old
     warning should not be lost sight of--"Put not your trust in
     princes"; and place no reliance upon the King of Abyssinia, at
     least outside his own country.Zeylah and Bogos might be ceded to
     him with advantage, and the free right of entry by the port of
     Massowah might be added; but it would be a mistake to give him
     possession of Massowah which he would ruin.A Commission might
     also be sent down with advantage to examine the state of things
     in Harrar, opposite Aden, and see what iniquities are going on
     there, as also at Berbera and Zeylah.By these means, and by the
     adoption of a steady, consistent policy at headquarters, it would
     be possible--not to say easy--to re-establish the authority of
     the Khedive between the Red Sea and Sennaar."As to the cost of the Soudan, it is a mistake to suppose that it
     will necessarily be a charge on the Egyptian Exchequer.It will
     cost two millions to relieve the garrisons and to quell the
     revolt; but that expenditure must be incurred any way; and in all
     probability, if the garrisons are handed over to be massacred and
     the country evacuated, the ultimate expenditure would exceed that
     sum.At first, until the country is pacified, the Soudan will
     need a subsidy of L200,000 a year from Egypt.That, however,
     would be temporary.During the last years of my administration
     the Soudan involved no charge upon the Egyptian Exchequer.The
     bad provinces were balanced against the good, and an equilibrium
     was established.The Soudan will never be a source of revenue to
     Egypt, but it need not be a source of expense.That deficits have
     arisen, and that the present disaster has occurred, is entirely
     attributable to a single cause, and that is, the grossest
     misgovernment."The cause of the rising in the Soudan is the cause of all
     popular risings against Turkish rule, wherever they have
     occurred.No one who has been in a Turkish province, and has
     witnessed the results of the Bashi-Bazouk system, which excited
     so much indignation some time ago in Bulgaria, will need to be
     told why the people of the Soudan have risen in revolt against
     the Khedive.The Turks, the Circassians, and the Bashi-Bazouks
     have plundered and oppressed the people in the Soudan, as they
     plundered and oppressed them in the Balkan peninsula.Oppression
     begat discontent; discontent necessitated an increase of the
     armed force at the disposal of the authorities; this increase of
     the army force involved an increase of expenditure, which again
     was attempted to be met by increasing taxation, and that still
     further increased the discontent.And so things went on in a
     dismal circle, until they culminated, after repeated deficits, in
     a disastrous rebellion.That the people were justified in
     rebelling, nobody who knows the treatment to which they were
     subjected will attempt to deny.Their cries were absolutely
     unheeded at Cairo.In despair, they had recourse to the only
     method by which they could make their wrongs known; and, on the
     same principle that Absalom fired the corn of Joab, so they
     rallied round the Mahdi, who exhorted them to revolt against the
     Turkish yoke.I am convinced that it is an entire mistake to
     regard the Mahdi as in any sense a religious leader: he
     personifies popular discontent.All the Soudanese are potential
     Mahdis, just as all the Egyptians are potential Arabis.The
     movement is not religious, but an outbreak of despair.Three
     times over I warned the late Khedive that it would be impossible
     to govern the Soudan on the old system, after my appointment to
     the Governor-Generalship.During the three years that I wielded
     full powers in the Soudan, I taught the natives that they had a
     right to exist.I waged war against the Turks and Circassians,
     who had harried the population.I had taught them something of
     the meaning of liberty and justice, and accustomed them to a
     higher ideal of government than that with which they had
     previously been acquainted.As soon as I had gone, the Turks and
     Circassians returned in full force; the old Bashi-Bazouk system
     was re-established; my old _employes_ were persecuted; and a
     population which had begun to appreciate something like decent
     government was flung back to suffer the worst excesses of Turkish
     rule.The inevitable result followed; and thus it may be said
     that the egg of the present rebellion was laid in the three years
     during which I was allowed to govern the Soudan on other than
     Turkish principles."The Soudanese are a very nice people.They deserve the sincere
     compassion and sympathy of all civilised men.I got on very well
     with them, and I am sincerely sorry at the prospect of seeing
     them handed over to be ground down once more by their Turkish and
     Circassian oppressors.Yet, unless an attempt is made to hold on
     to the present garrisons, it is inevitable that the Turks, for
     the sake of self-preservation, must attempt to crush them.They
     deserve a better fate.It ought not to be impossible to come to
     terms with them, to grant them a free amnesty for the past, to
     offer them security for decent government in the future.If this
     were done, and the government entrusted to a man whose word was
     truth, all might yet be re-established.So far from believing it
     impossible to make an arrangement with the Mahdi, I strongly
     suspect that he is a mere puppet, put forward by Elias, Zebehr's
     father-in-law, and the largest slave-owner in Obeid, and that he
     had assumed a religious title to give colour to his defence of
     the popular rights."There is one subject on which I cannot imagine any one can
     differ about.That is the impolicy of announcing our intention to
     evacuate Khartoum.Even if we were bound to do so we should have
     said nothing about it.The moment it is known that we have given
     up the game, every man will go over to the Mahdi.All men worship
     the rising sun.The difficulties of evacuation will be enormously
     increased, if, indeed, the withdrawal of our garrison is not
     rendered impossible."The late Khedive, who is one of the ablest and worst-used men in
     Europe, would not have made such a mistake, and under him the
     condition of Egypt proper was much better than it is to-day.Now,
     with regard to Egypt, the same principle should be observed that
     must be acted upon in the Soudan.Let your foundations be broad
     and firm, and based upon the contentment and welfare of the
     people.Hitherto, both in the Soudan and in Egypt, instead of
     constructing the social edifice like a pyramid, upon its base, we
     have been rearing an obelisk which a single push may overturn.Our safety in Egypt is to do something for the people.That is to
     say, you must reduce their rent, rescue them from the usurers,
     and retrench expenditure.Nine-tenths of the European _employes_
     might probably be weeded out with advantage.The remaining
     tenth--thoroughly efficient--should be retained; but, whatever
     you do, do not break up Sir Evelyn Wood's army, which is destined
     to do good work.Stiffen it as much as you please, but with
     Englishmen, not with Circassians.Circassians are as much
     foreigners in Egypt as Englishmen are, and certainly not more
     popular.As for the European population, let them have charters
     for the formation of municipal councils, for raising volunteer
     corps, and for organising in their own defence.Anything more
     shameful than the flight from Egypt in 1882 I never read.Let
     them take an example from Shanghai, where the European settlement
     provides for its own defence and its own government.I should
     like to see a competent special Commissioner of the highest
     standing--such a man, for instance, as the Right Honourable W. E.
     Forster, who is free at once from traditions of the elders and of
     the Foreign Office and of the bondholders, sent out to put Nubar
     in the saddle, sift out unnecessary _employes_, and warn
     evil-doers in the highest places that they will not be allowed to
     play any tricks.If that were done, it would give confidence
     everywhere, and I see no reason why the last British soldier
     should not be withdrawn from Egypt in six months' time."A perusal of these passages will suffice to show the reader what
thoughts were uppermost in Gordon's mind at the very moment when he
was negotiating about his new task for the King of the Belgians on the
Congo, and those thoughts, inspired by the enthusiasm derived from his
noble spirit, and the perfect self-sacrifice with which he would have
thrown himself into what he conceived to be a good and necessary work,
made him the ready victim of a Government which absolutely did not
know what course to pursue, and which was delighted to find that the
very man, whom the public designated as the right man for the
situation, was ready--nay, eager--to take all the burden on his
shoulders whenever his own Government called on him to do so, and to
proceed straight to the scene of danger without so much as asking for
precise instructions, or insisting on guarantees for his own proper
treatment.There is no doubt that from his own individual point of
view, and as affecting any selfish or personal consideration he had at
heart, this mode of action was very unwise and reprehensible, and a
worldly censure would be the more severe on Gordon, because he acted
with his eyes open, and knew that the gravity of the trouble really
arose from the drifting policy and want of purpose of the very
Ministers for whom he was about to dare a danger that Gordon himself,
in a cooler moment, would very likely have deemed it unnecessary to
face.Into the motives that filled him with a belief that he might inspire a
Government, which had no policy, with one created by his own courage,
confidence, and success, it would be impossible to enter, but it can
be confidently asserted that, although they were drawn after him _sed
pede claudo_ to expend millions of treasure and thousands of lives,
they were never inspired by his exhortations and example to form a
definite policy as to the main point in the situation, viz., the
defence of the Egyptian possessions.In the flush of the moment,
carried along by an irresistible inclination to do the things which he
saw could be done, he overlooked all the other points of the case, and
especially that he was dealing with politicians tied by their party
principles, and thinking more of the passage through the House of some
domestic measure of fifth-rate importance than of the maintenance of
an Imperial interest and the arrest of an outbreak of Mahommedan
fanaticism which, if not checked, might call for a crusade.He never thought but that he was
dealing with other Englishmen equally mindful with himself of their
country's fame.If Gordon, long before he took up the task, had been engrossed in the
development of the Soudan difficulty and the Mahdi's power, those who
had studied the question and knew his special qualifications for the
task, had, at a very early stage of the trouble, called upon the
Government to avail themselves of his services, and there is no doubt
that if that advice had been promptly taken instead of slowly,
reluctantly, and only when matters were desperate, there is no doubt,
I repeat, remembering what he did later on, that Gordon would have
been able, without a single English regiment, to have strangled the
Mahdi's power in its infancy, and to have won back the Soudan for the
Khedive.But it may be said, where was it ever prominently suggested that
General Gordon should be despatched to the Soudan at a time before the
Mahdi had become supreme in that region, as he undoubtedly did by the
overthrow of Hicks and his force?I reply by the following quotations from prominent articles written by
myself in _The Times_ of January and February 1883.Until the capture
of El Obeid at that period the movement of the Mahdi was a local
affair of the importance of which no one, at a distance, could attempt
to judge, but that signal success made it the immediate concern of
those responsible in Egypt.On 9th January 1883, in an article in _The
Times_ on "The Soudan," occurs this passage:--

     "It is a misfortune, in the interests of Egypt, of civilisation,
     and of the mass of the Soudanese, that we cannot send General
     Gordon back to the region of the Upper Nile to complete there the
     good work he began eight years ago.With full powers, and with
     the assurance that the good fruits of his labours shall not be
     lost by the subsequent acts of corrupt Pashas, there need be
     little doubt of his attaining rapid success, while the memory of
     his achievements, when working for a half-hearted Government,
     and with incapable colleagues, yet lives in the hearts of the
     black people of the Soudan, and fills one of the most creditable
     pages in the history of recent administration of alien races by
     Englishmen."Again, on 17th February, in another article on the same subject:--

     "The authority of the Mahdi could scarcely be preserved save by
     constant activity and a policy of aggression, which would
     constitute a standing danger to the tranquillity of Lower Egypt.On the other hand, the preservation of the Khedive's sovereign
     rights through our instrumentality will carry with it the
     responsibility of providing the unhappy peoples of Darfour,
     Dongola, Kordofan, and the adjacent provinces with an equitable
     administration and immunity from heavy taxation.The obligation
     cannot be avoided under these, or perhaps under any
     circumstances, but the acceptance of it is not a matter to be
     entertained with an easy mind.The one thing that would reconcile
     us to the idea would be the assurance that General Gordon would
     be sent back with plenary powers to the old scene of his labours,
     and that he would accept the charge."As Gordon was not resorted to when the fall of El Obeid in the early
part of the year 1883 showed that the situation demanded some decisive
step, it is not surprising that he was left in inglorious inaction in
Palestine, while, as I and others knew well, his uppermost thought was
to be grappling with the Mahdi during the long lull of preparing
Hicks's expedition, and of its marching to its fate.The catastrophe
to that force on 4th November was known in London on 22nd November.I urged in every possible way the prompt employment of General Gordon,
who could have reached Egypt in a very short time from his place of
exile at Jaffa.But on this occasion I was snubbed, being told by one
of the ablest editors I have known, now dead, that "Gordon was
generally considered to be mad."However, at this moment the
Government seem to have come to the conclusion that General Gordon had
some qualifications to undertake the task in the Soudan, for at the
end of November 1883, Sir Charles Dilke, then a member of the Cabinet
as President of the Local Government Board, but whose special
knowledge and experience of foreign affairs often led to his assisting
Lord Granville at the Foreign Office, offered the Egyptian Government
Gordon's services.They were declined, and when, on 1st December 1883,
Lord Granville proposed the same measure in a more formal manner, and
asked in an interrogatory form whether General Charles Gordon would be
of any use, and if so in what capacity, Sir Evelyn Baring, now Lord
Cromer, threw cold water on the project, and stated on 2nd December
that "the Egyptian Government were very much averse to employing him."Subsequent events make it desirable to call special attention to the
fact that when, however tardily, the British Government did propose
the employment of General Gordon, the suggestion was rejected, not on
public grounds, but on private.Major Baring did not need to be
informed as to the work Gordon had done in the Soudan, and as to the
incomparable manner in which it had been performed.No one knew better
than he that, with the single exception of Sir Samuel Baker, who was
far too prudent to take up a thankless task, and to remove the
mountain of blunders others had committed, there was no man living who
had the smallest pretension to say that he could cope with the Soudan
difficulty, save Charles Gordon.Yet, when his name is suggested, he
treats the matter as one that cannot be entertained.There is not a
word as to the obvious propriety of suggesting Gordon's name, but the
objection of a puppet-prince like Tewfik is reported as fatal to the
course.Yet six weeks, with the mighty lever of an aroused public
opinion, sufficed to make him withdraw the opposition he advanced to
the appointment, not on public grounds, which was simply impossible,
but, I fear, from private feelings, for he had not forgotten the scene
in Cairo in 1878, when he attempted to control the action of Gordon on
the financial question.There would be no necessity to refer to this
matter, but for its consequences.Had Sir Evelyn Baring done his duty,
and given the only honest answer on 2nd December 1883, that if any one
man could save the situation, that man was Charles Gordon, Gordon
could have reached Khartoum early in January instead of late in
February, and that difference of six weeks might well have sufficed to
completely alter the course of subsequent events, and certainly to
save Gordon's life, seeing that, after all, the Nile Expedition was
only a few days too late.The delay was also attended with fatal
results to the civil population of Khartoum.Had Gordon reached there
early in January he could have saved them all, for as it was he sent
down 2600 refugees, i.e.merchants, old men, women, and children,
making all arrangements for their comfort in the very brief period of
open communication after his arrival, when the greater part of
February had been spent.The conviction that Gordon's appointment and departure were retarded
by personal _animus_ and an old difference is certainly strengthened
by all that follows.Sir Evelyn Baring and the Egyptian Government
would not have Charles Gordon, but they were quite content to entrust
the part of Saviour of the Soudan to Zebehr, the king of the
slave-hunters.On 13th December Lord Granville curtly informed our
representative at Cairo that the employment of Zebehr was inexpedient,
and Gordon in his own forcible way summed the matter up thus: "Zebehr
will manage to get taken prisoner, and will then head the revolt."But while Sir Evelyn Baring would not have Gordon and the British
Cabinet withheld its approval from Zebehr, it was felt that the
situation required that something should be done as soon as possible,
for the Mahdi was master of the Soudan, and at any moment tidings
might come of his advance on Khartoum, where there was only a small
and disheartened garrison, and a considerable defenceless population.The responsible Egyptian Ministers made several suggestions for
dealing with the situation, but they one and all deprecated ceding
territory to the Mahdi, as it would further alienate the tribes still
loyal or wavering and create graver trouble in the future.What they
chiefly contended for was the opening of the Berber-Souakim route with
10,000 troops, who should be Turks, as English troops were not
available.It is important to note that this suggestion did not shock
the Liberal Government, and on 13th December 1883 Lord Granville
replied that the Government had no objection to offer to the
employment of Turkish troops at Souakim for service in the Soudan.In
the following month the Foreign Secretary went one step further, and
"concurred in the surrender of the Soudan to the Sultan."In fact the
British Government were only anxious about one thing, and that was to
get rid of the Soudan, and to be saved any further worry in the
matter.No doubt, if the Sultan had had the money to pay for the
despatch of the expedition, this last suggestion would have been
adopted, but as he had not, the only way to get rid of the
responsibility was to thrust it on Gordon, who was soon discovered to
be ready to accept it without delay or conditions.On 22nd December 1883 Sir Evelyn Baring wrote: "It would be necessary
to send an English officer of high authority to Khartoum with full
powers to withdraw the garrisons, and to make the best arrangements
possible for the future government of the country."News from Khartoum
showed that everything there was in a state verging on panic, that the
people thought they were abandoned by the Government, and that the
enemy had only to advance for the place to fall without a blow.Lastly
Colonel de Coetlogon, the governor after Hicks's death, recommended on
9th January the immediate withdrawal of the garrison from Khartoum,
which he thought could be accomplished if carried out with the
greatest promptitude, but which involved the desertion of the other
garrisons.Abd-el-Kader, ex-Governor-General of the Soudan and
Minister of War, offered to proceed to Khartoum, but when he
discovered that the abandonment of the Soudan was to be proclaimed, he
absolutely refused on any consideration to carry out what he termed a
hopeless errand.All these circumstances gave special point to Sir Evelyn Baring's
recommendation on 22nd December that "an English officer of high
authority should be sent to Khartoum," and the urgency of a decision
was again impressed on the Government in his telegram of 1st January,
because Egypt is on the point of losing the Soudan, and moreover
possesses no force with which to defend the valley of the Nile
downwards.But in the many messages that were sent on this subject
during the last fortnight of the year 1883, the name of the one
"English officer of high authority" specially suited for the task
finds no mention.As this omission cannot be attributed to ignorance,
some different motive must be discovered.At last, on 10th January,
Lord Granville renews his suggestion to send General Gordon, and asks
whether he would not be of some assistance under the altered
circumstances.The "altered circumstances" must have been inserted for
the purpose of letting down Sir Evelyn Baring as lightly as possible,
for the only alteration in the circumstances was that six weeks had
been wasted in coming to any decision at all.On 11th January Sir
Evelyn Baring replied that he and Nubar Pasha did not think Gordon's
services could be utilised, and yet three weeks before he had
recommended that "an English officer of high authority" should be
sent, and he had even complained because prompter measures were not
taken to give effect to his recommendation.The only possible
conclusion is that, in Sir Evelyn Baring's opinion, General Gordon was
not "an English officer of high authority."As if to make his views
more emphatic, Sir Evelyn Baring on 15th January again telegraphed for
an English officer with the intentional and conspicuous omission of
Gordon's name, which had been three times urged upon him by his own
Government.But determined as Sir Evelyn Baring was that by no act or
word of his should General Gordon be appointed to the Soudan, there
were more powerful influences at work than even his strong will.The publication of General Gordon's views in the _Pall Mall Gazette_
of 9th January 1884 had roused public opinion to the importance and
urgency of the matter.It had also revealed that there was at least
one man who was not in terror of the Mahdi's power, and who thought
that the situation might still be saved.There is no doubt that that
publication was the direct and immediate cause of Lord Granville's
telegram of 10th January; but Sir Evelyn Baring, unmoved by what
people thought or said at home, coldly replied on 11th January that
Gordon is not the man he wants.If there had been no other
considerations in the matter, I have no doubt that Sir Evelyn Baring
would have beaten public opinion, and carried matters in the high,
dictatorial spirit he had shown since the first mention of Gordon's
name.But he had not made allowance for an embarrassed and purposeless
Government, asking only to be relieved of the whole trouble, and
willing to adopt any suggestion--even to resign its place to "the
unspeakable Turk"--so long as it was no longer worried in the matter.At that moment Gordon appears on the scene, ready and anxious to
undertake single-handed a task for which others prescribe armies and
millions of money.Public opinion greets him as the man for the
occasion, and certainly he is the man to suit "that" Government.The
only obstruction is Sir Evelyn Baring.Against any other array of
forces his views would have prevailed, but even for him these are too
strong.On 15th January Gordon saw Lord Wolseley, as described in the last
chapter, and then and there it is discovered and arranged that he will
go to the Soudan, but only at the Government's request, provided the
King of the Belgians will consent to his postponing the fulfilment of
his promise, as Gordon knows he cannot help but do, for it was given
on the express stipulation that the claim of his own country should
always come first.King Leopold, who has behaved throughout with
generosity, and the most kind consideration towards Gordon, is
naturally displeased and upset, but he feels that he cannot restrain
Gordon or insist on the letter of his bond.The Congo Mission is
therefore broken off or suspended, as described in the last chapter.In the evening of the 15th Lord Granville despatched a telegram to Sir
Evelyn Baring, no longer asking his opinion or advice, but stating
that the Government have determined to send General Gordon to the
Soudan, and that he will start without delay.To that telegram the
British representative could make no demur short of resigning his
post, but at last the grudging admission was wrung from him that
"Gordon would be the best man."This conclusion, to which anyone
conversant with the facts, as Sir Evelyn Baring was, would have come
at once, was therefore only arrived at seven weeks after Sir Charles
Dilke first brought forward Gordon's name as the right person to deal
with the Soudan difficulty.That loss of time was irreparable, and in
the end proved fatal to Gordon himself.In describing the last mission, betrayal, and death of Gordon, the
heavy responsibility of assigning the just blame to those individuals
who were in a special degree the cause of that hero's fate cannot be
shirked by any writer pretending to record history.Lord Cromer has
filled a difficult post in Egypt for many years with advantage to his
country, but in the matter of General Gordon's last Nile mission he
allowed his personal feelings to obscure his judgment.He knew that
Gordon was a difficult, let it be granted an impossible, colleague;
that he would do things in his own way in defiance of diplomatic
timidity and official rigidity; and that, instead of there being in
the Egyptian firmament the one planet Baring, there would be only the
single sun of Gordon.All these considerations were human, but they
none the less show that he allowed his private feelings, his
resentment at Gordon's treatment of him in 1878, to bias his judgment
in a matter of public moment.It was his opposition alone that
retarded Gordon's departure by seven weeks, and indeed the delay was
longer, as Gordon was then at Jaffa, and that delay, I repeat it
solemnly, cost Gordon his life.Whoever else was to blame afterwards,
the first against whom a verdict of Guilty must be entered, without
any hope of reprieve at the bar of history, was Sir Evelyn Baring, now
Lord Cromer.Mr Gladstone and his Government are certainly clear of any reflection
in this stage of the matter.They did their best to put forward
General Gordon immediately on the news coming of the Hicks disaster,
and although they might have shown greater determination in compelling
the adoption of their plan, which they were eventually obliged to do,
this was a very venial fault, and not in any serious way blameworthy.Nor did they ever seek to repudiate their responsibility for sending
Gordon to the Soudan, although a somewhat craven statement by Lord
Granville, in a speech at Shrewsbury in September 1885, to the effect
that "Gordon went to Khartoum at his own request," might seem to infer
that they did.This remark may have been a slip, or an incorrect mode
of saying that Gordon willingly accepted the task given him by the
Government, but Mr Gladstone placed the matter in its true light when
he wrote that "General Gordon went to the Soudan at the request of
H.M.Gordon, accompanied by Lieutenant-Colonel Donald Stewart, an officer
who had visited the Soudan in 1883, and written an able report on it,
left London by the Indian mail of 18th January 1884.The decision to
send Colonel Stewart with him was arrived at only at the very last
moment, and on the platform at Charing Cross Station the acquaintance
of the two men bound together in such a desperate partnership
practically began.It is worth recalling that in that hurried and
stirring scene, when the War Office, with the Duke of Cambridge, had
assembled to see him off, Gordon found time to say to one of Stewart's
nearest relations, "Be sure that he will not go into any danger which
I do not share, and I am sure that when I am in danger he will not be
far behind."Gordon's journey to Egypt was uneventful, but after the exciting
events that preceded his departure he found the leisure of his
sea-trip from Brindisi beneficial and advantageous, for the purpose of
considering his position and taking stock of the situation he had to
face.By habit and temperament Gordon was a bad emissary to carry out
cut-and-dried instructions, more especially when they related to a
subject upon which he felt very strongly and held pronounced views.The instructions which the Government gave him were as follows, and I
quote the full text.They were probably not drawn up and in Gordon's
hands more than two hours before he left Charing Cross, and personally
I do not suppose that he had looked through them, much less studied
them.He went to the Soudan to
rescue the garrisons, and to carry out the evacuation of the province
after providing for its administration.The letter given in the
previous chapter shows how vague and incomplete was the agreement
between himself and Ministers.It was nothing more than the expression
of an idea that the Soudan should be evacuated, but how and under what
conditions was left altogether to the chapter of accidents.At the
start the Government's view of the matter and his presented no glaring
difference.They sent General Gordon to rescue and withdraw the
garrisons if he could do so, and they were also not averse to his
establishing any administration that he chose.But the main point on
which they laid stress was that they were to be no longer troubled in
the affair.Gordon's marvellous qualities were to extricate them from
the difficult position in which the shortcomings of the Egyptian
Government had placed them, and beyond that they had no definite
thought or care as to how the remedy was to be discovered and applied.The following instructions should be read by the light of these
reflections, which show that, while they nominally started from the
same point, Gordon and the Government were never really in touch, and
had widely different goals in view:--

                              "FOREIGN OFFICE, _January 18th, 1884_."Her Majesty's Government are desirous that you should proceed at
     once to Egypt, to report to them on the military situation in the
     Soudan, and on the measures which it may be advisable to take for
     the security of the Egyptian garrisons still holding positions in
     that country, and for the safety of the European population in
     Khartoum."You are also desired to consider and report upon the best mode
     of effecting the evacuation of the interior of the Soudan, and
     upon the manner in which the safety and the good administration
     by the Egyptian Government of the ports on the sea-coast can best
     be secured."In connection with this subject, you should pay especial
     consideration to the question of the steps that may usefully be
     taken to counteract the stimulus which it is feared may possibly
     be given to the Slave Trade by the present insurrectionary
     movement and by the withdrawal of the Egyptian authority from the
     interior."You will be under the instructions of Her Majesty's Agent and
     Consul-General at Cairo, through whom your Reports to Her
     Majesty's Government should be sent, under flying seal."You will consider yourself authorized and instructed to perform
     such other duties as the Egyptian Government may desire to
     entrust to you, and as may be communicated to you by Sir E.
     Baring.You will be accompanied by Colonel Stewart, who will
     assist you in the duties thus confided to you."On your arrival in Egypt you will at once communicate with Sir
     E. Baring, who will arrange to meet you, and will settle with you
     whether you should proceed direct to Suakin, or should go
     yourself or despatch Colonel Stewart to Khartoum _via_ the Nile."General Gordon had not got very far on his journey before he began to
see that there were points on which it would be better for him to know
the Government's mind and to state his own.Neither at this time nor
throughout the whole term of his stay at Khartoum did Gordon attempt
to override the main decision of the Government policy, viz.to
evacuate the Soudan, although he left plenty of documentary evidence
to show that this was not his policy or opinion.Moreover, his own
policy had been well set forth in the _Pall Mall Gazette_, and might
be summed up in the necessity to keep the Eastern Soudan, and the
impossibility of fortifying Lower Egypt against the advance of the
Mahdi.But he had none the less consented to give his services to a
Government which had decided on evacuation, and he remained loyal to
that purpose, although in a little time it was made clear that there
was a wide and impassable gulf between the views of the British
Government and its too brilliant agent.The first doubt that flashed through his mind, strangely enough, was
about Zebehr.He knew, of course, that it had been proposed to employ
him, and that Mr Gladstone had not altogether unnaturally decided
against it.But Gordon knew the man's ability, his influence, and the
close connection he still maintained with the Soudan, where his
father-in-law Elias was the Mahdi's chief supporter, and the paymaster
of his forces.I believe that Gordon was in his heart of the opinion
that the Mahdi was only a lay figure, and that the real author of the
whole movement in the Soudan was Zebehr, but that the Mahdi, carried
away by his exceptional success, had somewhat altered the scope of the
project, and given it an exclusively religious or fanatical character.It is somewhat difficult to follow all the workings of Gordon's mind
on this point, nor is it necessary to do so, but the fact that should
not be overlooked is Gordon's conviction in the great power for good
or evil of Zebehr.Thinking this matter over in the train, he
telegraphed from Brindisi to Lord Granville on 30th January, begging
that Zebehr might be removed from Cairo to Cyprus.There is no doubt
as to the wisdom of this suggestion, and had it been adopted the lives
of Colonel Stewart and his companions would probably have been spared,
for, as will be seen, there is good ground to think that they were
murdered by men of his tribe.In Cyprus Zebehr would have been
incapable of mischief, but no regard was paid to Gordon's wish, and
thus commenced what proved to be a long course of indifference.During the voyage from Brindisi to Port-Said Gordon drew up a
memorandum on his instructions, correcting some of the errors that had
crept into them, and explaining what, more or less, would be the best
course to follow.One part of his instructions had to go by the
board--that enjoining him to restore to the ancient families of the
Soudan their long-lost possessions, for there were no such families in
existence.One paragraph in that memorandum was almost pathetic, when
he begged the Government to take the most favourable view of his
shortcomings if he found himself compelled by necessity to deviate
from his instructions.Colonel Stewart supported that view in a very
sensible letter, when he advised the Government, "as the wisest
course, to rely on the discretion of General Gordon and his knowledge
of the country."General Gordon's original plan was to proceed straight to Souakim, and
to travel thence by Berber to Khartoum, leaving the Foreign Office to
arrange at Cairo what his status should be, but this mode of
proceeding would have been both irregular and inconvenient, and it was
rightly felt that he ought to hold some definite position assigned by
the Khedive, as the ruler of Egypt.On arriving at Port-Said he was
met by Sir Evelyn Wood, who was the bearer of a private letter from
his old Academy and Crimean chum, Sir Gerald Graham, begging him to
"throw over all personal feelings" and come to Cairo.The appeal could
not have come from a quarter that would carry more weight with Gordon,
who had a feeling of affection as well as respect for General Graham;
and, moreover, the course suggested was so unmistakably the right one,
that he could not, and did not, feel any hesitation in taking it,
although he was well aware of Sir Evelyn Baring's opposition, which
showed that the sore of six years before still rankled.Gordon
accordingly accompanied Sir Evelyn Wood to Cairo, where he arrived on
the evening of 24th January.On the following day he was received by
Tewfik, who conferred on him for the second time the high office of
Governor-General of the Soudan.It is unnecessary to lay stress on any
minor point in the recital of the human drama which began with the
interview with Lord Wolseley on 15th January, and thence went on
without a pause to the tragedy of 26th January in the following year;
but it does seem strange, if the British Government were resolved to
stand firm to its evacuation policy, that it should have allowed its
emissary to accept the title of Governor-General of a province which
it had decided should cease to exist.This was not the only nor even the most important consequence of his
turning aside to go to Cairo.When there, those who were interested
for various reasons in the proposal to send Zebehr to the Soudan, made
a last effort to carry their project by arranging an interview between
that person and Gordon, in the hope that all matters in dispute
between them might be discussed, and, if possible, settled.Gordon,
whose enmity to his worst foe was never deep, and whose temperament
would have made him delight in a discussion with the arch-fiend, said
at once that he had no objection to meeting Zebehr, and would discuss
any matter with him or any one else.The penalty of this magnanimity
was that he was led to depart from the uncompromising but safe
attitude of opposition and hostility he had up to this observed
towards Zebehr, and to record opinions that were inconsistent with
those he had expressed on the same subject only a few weeks and even
days before.But even in what follows I believe it is safe to discern
his extraordinary perspicuity; for when he saw that the Government
would not send Zebehr to Cyprus, he promptly concluded that it would
be far safer to take or have him with him in the Soudan, where he
could personally watch and control his movements, than to allow him to
remain at Cairo, guiding hostile plots with his money and influence in
the very region whither Gordon was proceeding.This view is supported by the following Memorandum, drawn up by
General Gordon on 25th January 1884, the day before the interview, and
entitled by him "Zebehr Pasha _v._ General Gordon":--

     "Zebehr Pasha's first connection with me began in 1877, when I
     was named Governor-General of Soudan.Zebehr was then at Cairo,
     being in litigation with Ismail Pasha Eyoub, my predecessor in
     Soudan.Zebehr had left his son Suleiman in charge of his forces
     in the Bahr Gazelle.Darfour was in complete rebellion, and I
     called on Suleiman to aid the Egyptian army in May 1877.In June 1877 I went to Darfour, and was engaged with the
     rebels when Suleiman moved up his men, some 6000, to Dara.It was
     in August 1877.He and his men assumed an hostile attitude to the
     Government of Dara.I came down to Dara and went out to
     Suleiman's camp, and asked them to come and see me at Dara.Suleiman and his chiefs did so, and I told them I felt sure that
     they meditated rebellion, but if they rebelled they would perish.I offered them certain conditions, appointing certain chiefs to
     be governors of certain districts, but refusing to let Suleiman
     be Governor of Bahr Gazelle.After some days' parleying, some of
     Suleiman's chiefs came over to my side, and these chiefs warned
     me that, if I did not take care, Suleiman would attack me.I
     therefore ordered Suleiman to go to Shaka, and ordered those
     chiefs who were inclined to accept my terms in another
     direction, so as to separate them.On this Suleiman accepted my
     terms, and he and others were made Beys.He left for Shaka with
     some 4000 men.He looted the country from Dara to Shaka, and did
     not show any respect to my orders.The rebellion in Darfour being
     settled, I went down to Shaka with 200 men.Suleiman was there
     with 4000.Then he came to me and begged me to let him have the
     sole command in Bahr Gazelle.I refused, and I put him, Suleiman,
     under another chief, and sent up to Bahr Gazelle 200 regular
     troops.Things remained quiet in Bahr Gazelle till I was ordered
     to Cairo in April 1878, about the finances.I then saw Zebehr
     Pasha, who wished to go up to Soudan, and I refused.I left for
     Aden in May, and in June 1878 Suleiman broke out in revolt, and
     killed the 200 regular troops at Bahr Gazelle.I sent Gessi
     against him in August 1878, and Gessi crushed him in the course
     of 1879.Gessi captured a lot of letters in the divan of
     Suleiman, one of which was from Zebehr Pasha inciting him to
     revolt.The original of this letter was given by me to H.H.the
     Khedive, and I also had printed a brochure containing it and a
     sort of _expose_ to the people of Soudan why the revolt had been
     put down--viz.that it was not a question of slave-hunting, but
     one of revolt against the Khedive's authority.Copies of this
     must exist.On the production of this letter of Zebehr to
     Suleiman, I ordered the confiscation of Zebehr's property in
     Soudan, and a court martial to sit on Zebehr's case.This court
     martial was held under Hassan Pasha Halmi; the court condemned
     Zebehr to death; its proceedings were printed in the brochure I
     alluded to.Gessi afterwards caught Suleiman and shot him.With
     details of that event I am not acquainted, and I never saw the
     papers, for I went to Abyssinia.Gessi's orders were to try him,
     and if guilty to shoot him.This is all I have to say about
     Zebehr and myself."Zebehr, without doubt, was the greatest slave-hunter who ever
     existed.Zebehr is the most able man in the Soudan; he is a
     capital general, and has been wounded several times.Zebehr has a
     capacity of government far beyond any statesman in the Soudan.All the followers of the Mahdi would, I believe, leave the Mahdi
     on Zebehr's approach, for they are ex-chiefs of Zebehr.Personally, I have a great admiration for Zebehr, for he is a
     man, and is infinitely superior to those poor fellows who have
     been governors of Soudan; but I question in my mind, 'Will Zebehr
     ever forgive me the death of his son?'and that question has
     regulated my action respecting him, for I have been told he bears
     me the greatest malice, and one cannot wonder at it if one is a
     father."I would even now risk taking Zebehr, and would willingly bear
     the responsibility of doing so, convinced, as I am, that Zebehr's
     approach ends the Mahdi, which is a question which has its pulse
     in Syria, the Hedjaz, and Palestine."It cannot be the wish of H.M.'s Government, or of the Egyptian
     Government, to have an intestine war in the Soudan on its
     evacuation, yet such is sure to ensue, and the only way which
     could prevent it is the restoration of Zebehr, who would be
     accepted on all sides, and who would end the Mahdi in a couple of
     months.My duty is to obey orders of H.M.'s Government, _i.e._ to
     evacuate the Soudan as quickly as possible, _vis-a-vis_ the
     safety of the Egyptian employes."To do this I count on Zebehr; but if the addenda is made that I
     leave a satisfactory settlement of affairs, then Zebehr becomes a
     _sine qua non_.'s
     Government or Egyptian Government desire a settled state of
     affairs in Soudan after the evacuation?Do these Governments want
     to be free of this religious fanatic?If they do, then Zebehr
     should be sent; and if the two Governments are indifferent, then
     do not send him, and I have confidence one will (_D.V._) get out
     the Egyptian employes in three or four months, and will leave a
     cockpit behind us.It is not my duty to dictate what should be
     done.I will only say, first, I was justified in my action
     against Zebehr; second, that if Zebehr has no malice personally
     against me, I should take him at once as a humanly certain
     settler of the Mahdi and of those in revolt.I have written this
     Minute, and Zebehr's story may be heard.I only wish that after
     he has been interrogated, I may be questioned on such subjects as
     his statements are at variance with mine.I would wish this
     inquiry to be official, and in such a way that, whatever may be
     the decision come to, it may be come to in my absence."With respect to the slave-trade, I think nothing of it, for
     there will always be slave-trade as long as Turkey and Egypt buy
     the slaves, and it may be Zebehr will or might in his interest
     stop it in some manner.I will therefore sum up my opinion, viz.that I would willingly take the responsibility of taking Zebehr
     up with me if, after an interview with Sir E. Baring and Nubar
     Pasha, they tell 'the mystic feeling' I could trust him, and
     which'mystic feeling' I felt I had for him to-night when I met
     him at Cherif Pasha's house.Zebehr would have nothing to gain in
     hunting me, and I would have no fear.In this affair my desire, I
     own, would be to take Zebehr.I cannot exactly say why I feel
     towards him thus, and I feel sure that his going would settle the
     Soudan affair to the benefit of H.M.'s Government, and I would
     bear the responsibility of recommending it."C. G. GORDON, Major-General."An interview between Gordon and Zebehr was therefore arranged for 26th
January, the day after this memorandum was written.On 25th it should
also be remembered that the Khedive had again made Gordon
Governor-General of the Soudan.Besides the two principals, there were
present at this interview Sir Evelyn Baring, Sir Gerald Graham,
Colonel Watson, and Nubar Pasha.Zebehr protested his innocence of the
charges made against him; and when Gordon reminded him of his letter,
signed with his hand and bearing his seal, found in the divan of his
son Suleiman, he called upon Gordon to produce this letter, which, of
course, he could not do, because it was sent with the other
incriminating documents to the Khedive in 1879.The passage in that
letter establishing the guilt of Zebehr may, however, be cited, it
being first explained that Idris Ebter was Gordon's governor of the
Bahr Gazelle province, and that Suleiman did carry out his father's
instructions to attack him."Now since this same Idris Ebter has not appreciated our kindness
     towards him, nor shown regard for his duty towards God, therefore
     do you accomplish his ejection by compulsory force, threats, and
     menaces, without personal hurt, but with absolute expulsion and
     deprivation from the Bahr-el-Gazelle, leaving no remnant of him
     in that region, no son, and no relation.For he is a
     mischief-maker, and God loveth not them who make mischief."It is highly probable, from the air of confidence with which Zebehr
called for the production of the letter, that, either during the Arabi
rising or in some other way, he had recovered possession of the
original; but Gordon had had all the documents copied in 1879, and
bound in the little volume mentioned in the preceding Memorandum, as
well as in several of his letters, and the evidence as to Zebehr's
complicity and guilt seems quite conclusive.In his Memorandum Gordon makes two conditions: first, "if Zebehr bears
no malice personally against me, I will take him to the Soudan at
once," and this condition is given further force later on in reference
to "the mystic feeling."The second condition was that Zebehr was only
to be sent if the Government desired a settled state of affairs after
the evacuation.From the beginning of the interview it was clear to
those present that no good would come of it, as Zebehr could scarcely
control his feelings, and showed what they deemed a personal
resentment towards Gordon that at any moment might have found
expression in acts.After a brief discussion it was decided to adjourn
the meeting, on the pretence of having search made for the
incriminating document, but really to avert a worse scene.General
Graham, in the after-discussion on Gordon's renewed desire to take
Zebehr with him, declared that it would be dangerous to acquiesce; and
Colonel Watson plainly stated that it would mean the death of one or
both of them.Gordon, indifferent to all considerations of personal
danger, did not take the same view of Zebehr's attitude towards him
personally, and would still have taken him with him, if only on the
ground that he would be less dangerous in the Soudan than at Cairo;
but the authorities would not acquiesce in a proposition that they
considered would inevitably entail the murder of Gordon at an early
stage of the journey.They cannot, from any point of view, be greatly
blamed in this matter; and when Gordon complains later on, as he
frequently did complain, about the matter, the decision must be with
his friends at Cairo, for they strictly conformed with the first
condition specified in his own Memorandum.At the same time, he was
perfectly correct in his views as to Zebehr's power and capacity for
mischief, and it was certainly very unfortunate and wrong that his
earlier suggestion of removing him to Cyprus or some other place of
safety was not adopted.The following new correspondence will at least suggest a doubt whether
Gordon was not more correct in his view of Zebehr's attitude towards
himself than his friends.What they deemed strong resentment and a
bitter personal feeling towards Gordon on the part of Zebehr, he
considered merely the passing excitement from discussing a matter of
great moment and interest.He would still have taken Zebehr with him,
and for many weeks after his arrival at Khartoum he expected that, in
reply to his frequently reiterated messages, "Send me Zebehr," the
ex-Dictator of the Soudan would be sent up from Cairo.In one of the
last letters to his sister, dated Khartoum, 5th March 1884, he wrote:
"I hope _much_ from Zebehr's coming up, for he is so well known to all
up here."Some time after communications were broken off with Khartoum, Miss
Gordon wrote to Zebehr, begging him to use his influence with the
Mahdi to get letters for his family to and from General Gordon.To
that Zebehr replied as follows:--

     "TO HER EXCELLENCY MISS GORDON,--I am very grateful to you for
     having had the honour of receiving your letter of the 13th, and
     am very sorry to say that I am not able to write to the Mahdi,
     because he is new, and has appeared lately in the Soudan.I do
     not know him.He is not of my tribe nor of my relations, nor of
     the tribes with which I was on friendly terms; and for these
     reasons I do not see the way in which I could carry out your
     wish.I am ready to serve you in all that is possible all my life
     through, but please accept my excuse in this matter.ZEBEHR RAHAMAH, Pasha."CAIRO, _22nd January 1885_."Some time after the fall of Khartoum, Miss Gordon made a further
communication to Zebehr, but, owing to his having been exiled to
Gibraltar, it was not until October 1887 that she received the
following reply, which is certainly curious; and I believe that this
letter and personal conversations with Zebehr induced one of the
officers present at the interview on 26th January 1884 to change his
original opinion, and to conclude that it would have been safe for
General Gordon to have taken Zebehr with him:--

                              "CAIRO [_received by Miss Gordon
                                  about 12th October 1887_]."HONOURABLE LADY,--I most respectfully beg to acknowledge the
     receipt of your letter, enclosed to that addressed to me by His
     Excellency Watson Pasha."This letter has caused me a great satisfaction, as it speaks of
     the friendly relations that existed between me and the late
     Gordon Pasha, your brother, whom you have replaced in my heart,
     and this has been ascertained to me by your inquiring about me
     and your congratulating me for my return to Cairo" [that is,
     after his banishment to Gibraltar]."I consider that your poor brother is still alive in you, and for
     the whole run of my life I put myself at your disposal, and beg
     that you will count upon me as a true and faithful friend to you."You will also kindly pay my respects to the whole family of
     Gordon Pasha, and may you not deprive me of your good news at any
     time."My children and all my family join themselves to me, and pay you
     their best respects."Further, I beg to inform you that the messenger who had been
     previously sent through me, carrying Government correspondence to
     your brother, Gordon Pasha, has reached him, and remitted the
     letter he had in his own hands, and without the interference of
     any other person.The details of his history are mentioned in the
     enclosed report, which I hope you will kindly read.--Believe me,
     honourable Lady, to remain yours most faithfully,

                                             ZEBEHR RAHAMAH.""When I came to Cairo and resided in it as I was before, I kept
     myself aside of all political questions connected with the Soudan
     or others, according to the orders given me by the Government to
     that effect.But as a great rumour was spread over by the high
     Government officials who arrived from the Soudan, and were with
     H.E.General Gordon Pasha at Khartoum before and after it fell,
     that all my properties in that country had been looted, and my
     relations ill-treated, I have been bound, by a hearty feeling of
     compassion, to ask the above said officials what they knew about
     it, and whether the messenger sent by me with the despatches
     addressed by the Government to General Gordon Pasha had reached
     Khartoum and remitted what he had."These officials informed me verbally that on the 25th Ramadan
     1301 (March 1884), at the time they were sitting at Khartoum with
     General Gordon, my messenger, named Fadhalla Kabileblos, arrived
     there, and remitted to the General in his proper hands, and
     without the interference of anyone, all the despatches he had on
     him.After that the General expressed his greatest content for
     the receipt of the correspondence, and immediately gave orders to
     the artillery to fire twenty-five guns, in sign of rejoicing, and
     in order to show to the enemy his satisfaction for the news of
     the arrival of British troops.General Gordon then treated my
     messenger cordially, and requested the Government to pay him a
     sum of L500 on his return to Cairo, as a gratuity for all the
     dangers he had run in accomplishing his faithful mission.Besides
     that, the General gave him, when he embarked with Colonel
     Stewart, L13 to meet his expenses on the journey.A few days
     after the arrival of my messenger at Khartoum, H.E.General
     Gordon thought it proper to appoint Colonel Stewart for coming to
     Cairo on board a man-of-war with a secret mission, and several
     letters, written by the General in English and Arabic, were put
     in two envelopes, one addressed to the British and the other to
     the Egyptian Government, and were handed over to my messenger,
     with the order to return to Cairo with Colonel Stewart on board a
     special steamer."But when Khartoum fell, and the rebels got into it, making all
     the inhabitants prisoners, the Government officials above
     referred to were informed that my messenger had been arrested,
     and all the correspondence that he had on him, addressed by
     General Gordon to the Government, was seized; for when the
     steamer on board of which they were arrived at Abou Kamar she
     went on rocks, and having been broken, the rebels made a massacre
     of all those who were on board; and as, on seeing the letters
     carried by my messenger, they found amongst them a private letter
     addressed to me by H.E.Gordon Pasha, expressing his thanks for
     my faithfulness to him, the rebels declared me an infidel, and
     decided to seize all my goods and properties, comprising them in
     their _Beit-el-Mal_ (that is, Treasury) as it happened in fact."Moreover, the members of my family who were in the Soudan were
     treated most despotically, and their existence was rendered most
     difficult."Such a state of things being incompatible with the suspicion
     thrown upon me as regards my faithfulness to the Government, I
     have requested the high Government officials referred to above to
     give me an official certificate to that effect, which they all
     gave; and the enclosed copies will make known to those who take
     the trouble to read them that I have been honest and faithful in
     all what has been entrusted to me.This is the summary of the
     information I have obtained from persons I have reason to
     believe."Some further evidence of Zebehr's feelings is given in the following
letter from him to Sir Henry Gordon, dated in October 1884:--

     "Your favour of 3rd September has been duly received, for which I
     thank you.I herewith enclose my photograph, and hope that you
     will kindly send me yours."The letter that you wished me to send H.E.General Gordon was
     sent on the 18th August last, registered.I hope that you will
     excuse me in delaying to reply, for when your letter arrived I
     was absent, and when I returned I was very sorry that they had
     not forwarded the letter to me; otherwise I should have replied
     at once."I had closed this letter with the photograph when I received
     fresh news, to the effect that the messengers we sent to H.E.I therefore kept back the
     letter and photograph till they arrived, and I should see what
     tidings they brought.... You have told me that Lord Northbrook
     knows what has passed between us.I endeavoured and devised to
     see His Excellency, but I did not succeed, as he was very busy.I
     presented a petition to him that he should help to recover the
     property of which I was robbed unjustly, and which H.E.your
     brother ordered to be restored, and at the same time to right me
     for the oppression I had suffered.I have had no answer up to
     this present moment.Gordon Pasha will return in safety, accept my
     best regards, dear Sir, and present my compliments to your
     sister.1884._"

To sum up on this important matter.There never was any doubt that the
authorities in the Delta took on themselves a grave responsibility
when they remained deaf to all Gordon's requests for the co-operation
of Zebehr.They would justify themselves by saying that they had a
tender regard for Gordon's own safety.At least this was the only
point on which they showed it, and they would not like to be deprived
of the small credit attached to it; but the evidence I have now
adduced renders even this plea of doubtful force.As to the value of
Zebehr's co-operation, if Gordon could have obtained it there cannot
be two opinions.Gordon did not exaggerate in the least degree when he
said that on the approach of Zebehr the star of the Mahdi would at
once begin to wane, or, in other words, that he looked to Zebehr's
ability and influence as the sure way to make his own mission a
success.On the very night of his interview with Zebehr, and within forty-eight
hours of his arrival in Cairo, General Gordon and his English
companion, with four Egyptian officers, left by train for Assiout, _en
route_ to Khartoum.Before entering on the events of this crowning passage in the career
of this hero, I think the reader might well consider on its threshold
the exact nature of the adventure undertaken by Gordon as if it were a
sort of everyday experience and duty.At the commencement of the year
1884 the military triumph of the Mahdi was as complete as it could be
throughout the Soudan.Khartoum was still held by a force of between
4000 and 6000 men.Although not known, all the other garrisons in the
Nile Valley, except Kassala and Sennaar, both near the Abyssinian
frontier, had capitulated, and the force at Khartoum would certainly
have offered no resistance if the Mahdi had advanced immediately after
the defeat of Hicks.Even if he had reached Khartoum before the
arrival of Gordon, it is scarcely doubtful that the place would have
fallen without fighting.Colonel de Coetlogon was in command, but the
troops had no faith in him, and he had no confidence in them.That
officer, on 9th January, "telegraphed to the Khedive, strongly urging
an immediate withdrawal from Khartoum.He said that one-third of the
garrison are unreliable, and that even if it were twice as strong as
it is, it would not hold Khartoum against the whole country."In
several subsequent telegrams Colonel de Coetlogon importuned the Cairo
authorities to send him authority to leave with the garrison, and on
the very day that the Government finally decided to despatch Gordon he
telegraphed that there was only just enough time left to escape to
Berber.While the commandant held and expressed these views, it is not
surprising that the garrison and inhabitants were disheartened and
decidedly unfit to make any resolute opposition to a confident and
daring foe.There is excellent independent testimony as to the state
of public feeling in the town.Mr Frank Power had been residing in Khartoum as correspondent of _The
Times_ from August 1883, and in December, after the Hicks catastrophe,
he was appointed Acting British Consul.In a letter written on 12th
January he said: "They have done nothing for us yet from Cairo.They
are leaving it all to fate, and the rebels around us are growing
stronger!"Such was the general situation at Khartoum when General
Gordon was ordered, almost single-handed, to save it; and not merely
to rescue its garrison, pronounced by its commander to be partly
unreliable and wholly inadequate, but other garrisons scattered
throughout the regions held by the Mahdi and his victorious legions.A
courageous man could not have been charged with cowardice if he had
shrunk back from such a forlorn hope, and declined to take on his
shoulders the responsibility that properly devolved on the commander
on the spot.A prudent man would at least have insisted that his
instructions should be clear, and that the part his Government and
country were to play was to be as strictly defined and as obligatory
on them as his own.But while Gordon's courage was of such a quality
that I believe no calculation of odds or difficulties ever entered
into his view, his prudence never possessed the requisite amount of
suspicion to make him provide against the contingencies of absolute
betrayal by those who sent him, or of that change in party convenience
and tactics which induced those who first thought his mission most
advantageous as solving a difficulty, or at least putting off a
trouble, to veer round to the conclusion that his remaining at
Khartoum, his honourable but rigid resolve not to return without the
people he went to save, was a distinct breach of contract, and a
serious offence.The state of feeling at Khartoum was one verging on panic.The richest
townsmen had removed their property and families to Berber.Colonel de
Coetlogon had the river boats with steam up ready to commence the
evacuation, and while everyone thought that the place was doomed, the
telegraph instrument was eagerly watched for the signal to begin the
flight.The tension could not have lasted much longer--without the
signal the flight would have begun--when on 24th January the brief
message arrived: "General Gordon is coming to Khartoum."The panic ceased, confidence was
restored, the apathy of the Cairo authorities became a matter of no
importance, for England had sent her greatest name as a pledge of her
intended action, and the unreliable and insufficient garrison pulled
itself together for one of the most honourable and brilliant defences
in the annals of military sieges.Two months had
been wasted, and, as Mr Power said, "the fellows in Lucknow did not
look more anxiously for Colin Campbell than we are looking for
Gordon."Gordon, ever mindful of the importance of time, and fully
impressed with the sense of how much had been lost by delay, did not
let the grass grow under his feet, and after his two days' delay at
Cairo sent a message that he hoped to reach Khartoum in eighteen days.Mr Power's comment on that message is as follows: "Twenty-four days
is the shortest time from Cairo to Khartoum on record; Gordon says he
will be here in eighteen days; but he travels like a whirlwind."As a
matter of fact, Gordon took twenty days' travelling, besides the two
days he passed at Berber.He thus reached Khartoum on 18th February,
and four days later Colonel de Coetlogon started for Cairo.The entry of Gordon into Khartoum was marked by a scene of
indescribable enthusiasm and public confidence.The whole population,
men, women, and children, turned out to welcome him as a conqueror and
a deliverer, although he really came in his own person merely to cope
with a desperate situation.The women threw themselves on the ground
and struggled to kiss his feet; in the confusion Gordon was several
times pushed down; and this remarkable demonstration of popular
confidence and affection was continued the whole way from the
landing-place to the _Hukumdaria_ or Palace.This greeting was the
more remarkable because it was clear that Gordon had brought no
troops--only one white officer--and it soon became known that he had
brought no money.Even the Mahdi himself made his contribution to the
general tribute, by sending General Gordon on his arrival a formal
_salaam_ or message of respect.Thus hailed on all hands as the one
pre-eminently good man who had been associated with the Soudan, Gordon
addressed himself to the hard task he had undertaken, which had been
rendered almost hopeless of achievement by the lapse of time, past
errors, and the blindness of those who should have supported him.Difficult as it had been all along, it was rendered still more
difficult by the decisive defeat of Baker Pasha and an Egyptian force
of 4000 men at Tokar, near Souakim.This victory was won by Osman
Digma, who had been sent by the Mahdi to rouse up the Eastern Soudan
at the time of the threatened Hicks expedition.The result showed that
the Mahdi had discovered a new lieutenant of great military capacity
and energy, and that the Eastern Soudan was for the time as hopelessly
lost to Egypt as Kordofan and Darfour.The first task to which Gordon addressed himself was to place Khartoum
and the detached work at Omdurman on the left bank of the White Nile
in a proper state of defence, and he especially supervised the
establishment of telegraphic communication between the Palace and the
many outworks, so that at a moment's notice he might receive word of
what was happening.His own favourite position became the flat roof of
this building, whence with his glass he could see round for many
miles.He also laid in considerable stores of provisions by means of
his steamers, in which he placed the greatest faith.In all these
matters he was ably and energetically assisted by Colonel Stewart; and
beyond doubt the other Europeans took some slight share in the
incessant work of putting Khartoum in a proper state of defence; but
even with this relief, the strain, increased by constant alarms of the
Mahdi's hostile approach, was intense, and Mr Power speaks of Gordon
as nearly worn out with work before he had been there a month.When Gordon went to the Soudan his principal object was to effect the
evacuation of the country, and to establish there some administration
which would be answerable for good order and good neighbourship.If
the Mahdi had been a purely secular potentate, and not a fanatical
religious propagandist, it would have been a natural and feasible
arrangement to have come to terms with him as the conqueror of the
country.But the basis of the Mahdi's power forbade his being on terms
with anyone.If he had admitted the equal rights of Egypt and the
Khedive at any point, there would have been an end to his heavenly
mission, and the forces he had created out of the simple but
deep-rooted religious feelings of the Mahommedan clans of the Soudan
would soon have vanished.It is quite possible that General Gordon had
in his first views on the Mahdist movement somewhat undervalued the
forces created by that fanaticism, and that the hopes and opinions he
first expressed were unduly optimistic.If so, it must be allowed that
he lost not a moment in correcting them, and within a week of his
arrival at Khartoum he officially telegraphed to Cairo, that "if Egypt
is to be quiet the Mahdi must be smashed up."When the British Government received that message, as they did in a
few days, with, moreover, the expression of supporting views by Sir
Evelyn Baring, they ought to have reconsidered the whole question of
the Gordon mission, and to have defined their own policy.The
representative they had sent on an exceptional errand to relieve and
bring back a certain number of distressed troops, and to arrange if he
could for the formation of a new government through the notabilities
and ancient families, reports at an early stage of his mission that in
his opinion there is no solution of the difficulty, save by resorting
to offensive measures against the Mahdi as the disturber of the peace,
not merely for that moment, but as long as he had to discharge the
divine task implied by his title.As it was of course obvious that
Gordon single-handed could not take the field, the conclusion
necessarily followed that he would require troops, and the whole
character of his task would thus have been changed.In face of that
absolute _volte-face_, from a policy of evacuation and retreat to one
of retention and advance, for that is what it signified, the
Government would have been justified in recalling Gordon, but as they
did not do so, they cannot plead ignorance of his changed opinion, or
deny that, at the very moment he became acquainted with the real state
of things at Khartoum, he hastened to convey to them his decided
conviction that the only way out of the difficulty was to "smash up
the Mahdi."All his early messages show that there had been a change, or at least
a marked modification, in his opinions.At Khartoum he saw more
clearly than in Cairo or in London the extreme gravity of the
situation, and the consequences to the tranquillity of Lower Egypt
that would follow from the abandonment of Khartoum to the Mahdi.He
therefore telegraphed on the day of his arrival these words: "To
withdraw without being able to place a successor in my seat would be
the signal for general anarchy throughout the country, which, though
all Egyptian element were withdrawn, would be a misfortune, and
inhuman."In the same message he repeated his demand for the services
of Zebehr, through whom, as has been shown, he thought he might be
able to cope with the Mahdi.Yet their very refusal to comply with
that reiterated request should have made the authorities more willing
and eager to meet the other applications and suggestion of a man who
had thrust himself into a most perilous situation at their bidding,
and for the sake of the reputation of his country.It must be recorded
with feelings of shame that it had no such effect, and that apathy and
indifference to the fate of its gallant agent were during the first
few months the only characteristics of the Government policy.At the same period all Gordon's telegrams and despatches showed that
he wanted reinforcements to some small extent, and at least military
demonstrations along his line of communication with Egypt to prove
that he possessed the support of his Government, and that he had only
to call upon it to send troops, and they were there to come.He,
naturally enough, treated as ridiculous the suggestion that he had
bound himself to do the whole work without any support; and fully
convinced that he had only to summon troops for them to be sent him in
the moderate strength he alone cared for, he issued a proclamation in
Khartoum, stating that "British troops are now on their way, and in a
few days will reach Khartoum."He therefore begged for the despatch of
a small force to Wady Halfa, and he went on to declare that it would
be "comparatively easy to destroy the Mahdi" if 200 British troops
were sent to Wady Halfa, and if the Souakim-Berber route were opened
up by Indian-Moslem troops.Failing the adoption of these measures, he
asked leave to raise a sum, by appealing to philanthropists,
sufficient to pay a small Turkish force and carry on a contest for
supremacy with the Mahdi on his own behoof.All these suggestions
were more or less supported by Sir Evelyn Baring, who at last
suggested in an important despatch, dated 28th February, that the
British Government should withdraw altogether from the matter, and
"give full liberty of action to General Gordon and the Khedive's
Government to do what seems best to them."Well would it have been for Gordon and everyone whose reputation was
concerned if this step had been taken, for the Egyptian Government,
the Khedive, his ministers Nubar and Cherif, were opposed to all
surrender, and desired to hold on to Khartoum and the Souakim-Berber
route.But without the courage and resolution to discharge it, the
Government saw the obligation that lay on them to provide for the
security and good government of Egypt, and that if they shirked
responsibility in the Soudan, the independence of Egypt might be
accomplished by its own effort and success.They perceived the
objections to giving Egypt a free hand, but they none the less
abstained from taking the other course of definite and decisive action
on their own initiative.As Gordon quickly saw and tersely expressed:
"You will not let Egypt keep the Soudan, you will not take it
yourself, and you will not permit any other country to occupy it."As if to give emphasis to General Gordon's successive
requests--Zebehr, 200 men to Wady Halfa, opening of route from Souakim
to Berber, presence of English officers at Dongola, and of Indian
cavalry at Berber--telegraphic communication with Khartoum was
interrupted early in March, less than a fortnight after Gordon's
arrival in the town.There was consequently no possible excuse for
anyone ignoring the dangerous position in which General Gordon was
placed.He had gone to face incalculable dangers, but now the success
of Osman Digma and the rising of the riparian tribes threatened him
with that complete isolation which no one had quite expected at so
early a stage after his arrival.It ought, and one would have expected
it, to have produced an instantaneous effect, to have braced the
Government to the task of deciding what its policy should be when
challenged by its own representative to declare it.Gordon himself
soon realised his own position, for he wrote: "I shall be caught in
Khartoum; and even if I was mean enough to escape I have not the power
to do so."After a month's interruption he succeeded in getting the
following message, dated 8th April, through, which is significant as
showing that he had abandoned all hope of being supported by his own
Government:--

     "I have telegraphed to Sir Samuel Baker to make an appeal to
     British and American millionaires to give me L300,000 to engage
     3000 Turkish troops from the Sultan and send them here.This
     would settle the Soudan and Mahdi for ever.For my part, I think
     you (Baring) will agree with me.I do not see the fun of being
     caught here to walk about the streets for years as a dervish with
     sandalled feet.Not that (_D.V._) I will ever be taken alive.It
     would be the climax of meanness after I had borrowed money from
     the people here, had called on them to sell their grain at a low
     price, etc., to go and abandon them without using every effort to
     relieve them, whether those efforts are diplomatically correct or
     not; and I feel sure, whatever you may feel diplomatically, I
     have your support, and that of every man professing himself a
     gentleman, in private."Eight days later he succeeded in getting another message through, to
the following effect:--

     "As far as I can understand, the situation is this.You state
     your intention of not sending any relief up here or to Berber,
     and you refuse me Zebehr.I consider myself free to act according
     to circumstances.I shall hold on here as long as I can, and if I
     can suppress the rebellion I shall do so.If I cannot, I shall
     retire to the Equator and leave you the indelible disgrace of
     abandoning the garrisons of Senaar, Kassala, Berber, and Dongola,
     with the _certainty_ that you will eventually be forced to smash
     up the Mahdi under greater difficulties if you wish to maintain
     peace in, and, indeed, to retain Egypt."Before a silence of five and a half months fell over Khartoum, Gordon
had been able to make three things clear, and of these only one could
be described as having a personal signification, and that was that the
Government, by rejecting all his propositions, had practically
abandoned him to his fate.The two others were that any settlement
would be a work of time, and that no permanent tranquillity could be
attained without overcoming the Mahdi.Immediately on arriving at Khartoum he perceived that the evacuation
of the Soudan, with safety to the garrison and officials, as well as
the preservation of the honour of England and Egypt, would necessarily
be a work of time, and only feasible if certain measures were taken in
his support, which, considerable as they may have appeared at the
moment, were small and costless in comparison with those that had
subsequently to be sanctioned.Six weeks sufficed to show Gordon that
he would get no material help from the Government, and he then began
to look elsewhere for support, and to propound schemes for pacifying
the Soudan and crushing the Mahdi in which England and the Government
would have had no part.Hence his proposal to appeal to wealthy
philanthropists to employ Turkish troops, and in the last resort to
force his way to the Equator and the Congo.Even that avenue of safety
was closed to him by the illusory prospect of rescue held out to him
by the Government at the eleventh hour, when success was hardly
attainable.For the sake of clearness it will be well to give here a brief summary
of the siege during the six months that followed the arrival of
General Gordon and the departure of Colonel Stewart on 10th September.The full and detailed narrative is contained in Colonel Stewart's
Journal, which was captured on board his steamer.This interesting
diary was taken to the Mahdi at Omdurman, and is said to be carefully
preserved in the Treasury.The statement rests on no very sure
foundation, but if true the work may yet thrill the audience of the
English-speaking world.But even without its aid the main facts of the
siege of Khartoum, down at all events to the 14th December, when
Gordon's own diary stops, are sufficiently well known for all the
purposes of history.At a very early stage of the siege General Gordon determined to try
the metal of his troops, and the experiment succeeded to such a
perfect extent that there was never any necessity to repeat it.On
16th March, when only irregular levies and detached bodies of
tribesmen were in the vicinity of Khartoum, he sent out a force of
nearly 1000 men, chiefly Bashi-Bazouks, but also some regulars, with a
fieldpiece and supported by two steamers.The force started at eight
in the morning, under the command of Colonel Stewart, and landed at
Halfiyeh, some miles down the stream on the right bank of the Nile.Here the rebels had established a sort of fortified position, which it
was desirable to destroy, if it could be done without too much loss.The troops were accordingly drawn up for the attack, and the gun and
infantry fire commenced to cover the advance.At this moment about
sixty rebel horsemen came out from behind the stockade and charged the
Bashi-Bazouks, who fired one volley and fled.The horsemen then
charged the infantry drawn up in square, which they broke, and the
retreat to the river began at a run.Discouraging as this was for a
force of all arms to retire before a few horsemen one-twentieth its
number, the disaster was rendered worse and more disheartening by the
conduct of the men, who absolutely refused to fight, marching along
with shouldered arms without firing a shot, while the horsemen picked
off all who straggled from the column.The gun, a considerable
quantity of ammunition, and about sixty men represented the loss of
Gordon's force; the rebels are not supposed to have lost a single man."Nothing could be more dismal than seeing these horsemen, and some men
even on camels, pursuing close to troops who with shouldered arms
plodded their way back."Thus wrote Gordon of the men to whom he had
to trust for a successful defence of Khartoum.His most recent
experience confirmed his old opinion, that the Egyptian and Arab
troops were useless even when fighting to save their own lives, and he
could only rely on the very small body left of black Soudanese, who
fought as gallantly for him as any troops could, and whose loyalty and
devotion to him surpassed all praise.Treachery, it was assumed, had
something to do with the easy overthrow of this force, and two Pashas
were shot for misconduct on return to Khartoum.Having no confidence in the bulk of his force, it is not surprising
that Gordon resorted to every artifice within engineering science to
compensate for the shortcomings of his army.He surrounded
Khartoum--which on one side was adequately defended by the Nile and
his steamers--on the remaining three sides with a triple line of land
mines connected by wires.Often during the siege the Mahdists
attempted to break through this ring, but only to meet with repulse,
accompanied by heavy loss; and to the very last day of the siege they
never succeeded in getting behind the third of these lines.Their
efficacy roused Gordon's professional enthusiasm, and in one passage
he exclaims that these will be the general form of defence in the
future.During the first months of the siege, which began rather in
the form of a loose investment, the Nile was too low to allow of his
using the nine steamers he possessed, but he employed the time in
making two new ones, and in strengthening them all with bulwarks of
iron plates and soft wood, which were certainly bullet-proof.Each of
these steamers he valued as the equivalent of 2000 men.When it is
seen how he employed them the value will not be deemed excessive, and
certainly without them he could not have held Khartoum and baffled all
the assaults of the Mahdi for the greater part of a year.After this experience Gordon would risk no more combats on land, and
on 25th March he dismissed 250 of the Bashi-Bazouks who had behaved so
badly.Absolutely trustworthy statistics are not available as to the
exact number of troops in Khartoum or as to the proportion the Black
Soudanese bore to the Egyptians, but it approximates to the truth to
say that there were about 1000 of the former to 3000 of the latter,
and with other levies during the siege he doubled this total.For
these and a civilian population of nearly 40,000 Gordon computed that
he had provisions for five months from March, and that for at least
two months he would be as safe as in Cairo.By carefully husbanding
the corn and biscuit he was able to make the supply last much longer,
and even to the very end he succeeded in partially replenishing the
depleted granaries of the town.There is no necessity to repeat the
details of the siege during the summer of 1884.They are made up of
almost daily interchanges of artillery fire from the town, and of
rifle fire in reply from the Arab lines.That this was not merely
child's play may be gathered from two of Gordon's protected ships
showing nearly a thousand bullet-marks apiece.Whenever the rebels
attempted to force their way through the lines they were repulsed by
the mines; and the steamers not only inflicted loss on their fighting
men, but often succeeded in picking up useful supplies of food and
grain.No further reverses were reported, because Gordon was most
careful to avoid all risk, and the only misfortunes occurred in
Gordon's rear, when first Berber, through the treachery of the Greek
Cuzzi, and then Shendy passed into the hands of the Mahdists, thus, as
Gordon said, "completely hemming him in."In April a detached force up
the Blue Nile went over to the Mahdi, taking with them a small
steamer, but this loss was of no great importance, as the men were of
what Gordon called "the Arabi hen or hero type," and the steamer could
not force its way past Khartoum and its powerful flotilla.In the four
months from 16th March to 30th July Gordon stated that the total loss
of the garrison was only thirty killed and fifty or sixty wounded,
while half a million cartridges had been fired against the enemy.The
conduct of both the people and garrison had been excellent, and this
was the more creditable, because Gordon was obliged from the very
beginning, owing to the capture of the bullion sent him at Berber, to
make all payments in paper money bearing his signature and seal.During that period the total reinforcement to the garrison numbered
seven men, including Gordon himself, while over 2600 persons had been
sent out of it in safety as far as Berber.The reader will be interested in the following extracts from a letter
written by Colonel Duncan, R.A., M.P., showing the remarkable way in
which General Gordon organised the despatch of these refugees from
Khartoum.The letter is dated 29th November 1886, and addressed to
Miss Gordon:--

     "When your brother, on reaching Khartoum, found that he could
     commence sending refugees to Egypt, I was sent on the 3rd March
     1884 to Assouan and Korosko to receive those whom he sent down.As an instance of your brother's thoughtfulness, I may mention
     that he requested that, if possible, some motherly European woman
     might also be sent, as many of the refugees whom he had to send
     had never been out of the Soudan before, and might feel strange
     on reaching Egypt.A German, Giegler Pasha, who had been in
     Khartoum with your brother before, and who had a German wife, was
     accordingly placed at my disposal, and I stationed them at
     Korosko, where almost all the refugees arrived.I may mention
     that I saw and spoke to every one of the refugees who came down,
     and to many of the women and children.Their references to your
     brother were invariably couched in language of affection and
     gratitude, and the adjective most frequently applied to him was
     'just.'In sending away the people from Khartoum, he sent away
     the Governor and some of the other leading Egyptian officials
     first.I think he suspected they would intrigue; he always had
     more confidence in the people than in the ruling Turks or
     Egyptians.The oldest soldiers, the very infirm, the wounded
     (from Hicks's battles) were sent next, and a ghastly crew they
     were.But the precautions he took for their comfort were very
     complete, and although immediately before reaching me they had to
     cross a very bad part of the desert between Abou Hamed and
     Korosko, they reached me in wonderful spirits.It was touching to
     see the perfect confidence they had that the promises of Gordon
     Pasha would be fulfilled.After the fall of Khartoum, and your
     brother's death, a good many of the Egyptian officers who had
     been with your brother managed to escape, and to come down the
     river disguised in many cases as beggars.I had an opportunity of
     talking to most of them, and there was no collusion, for they
     arrived at different times and by different roads.I remember
     having a talk with one, and when we alluded to your brother's
     death he burst out crying like a child, and said that though he
     had lost his wives and children when Khartoum was taken, he felt
     it as nothing to the loss of 'that just man.'"The letters written at the end of July at Khartoum reached Cairo at
the end of September, and their substance was at once telegraphed to
England.They showed that, while his success had made him think that
after all there might be some satisfactory issue of the siege, he
foresaw that the real ordeal was yet to come."In four months (that is
end of November) river begins to fall; before that time you _must_
settle the Soudan question."So wrote the heroic defender of Khartoum
in words that could not be misunderstood, and those words were in the
hands of the British Ministers when half the period had expired.At
the same time Mr Power wrote: "We can at best hold out but two months
longer."Gordon at least never doubted what their effect would be, for
after what seemed to him a reasonable time had elapsed to enable this
message to reach its destination, he took the necessary steps to
recover Berber, and to send his steamers half-way to meet and assist
the advance of the reinforcement on which he thought from the
beginning he might surely rely.On 10th September all his plans were completed, and Colonel Stewart,
accompanied by a strong force of Bashi-Bazouks and some black
soldiers, with Mr Power and M. Herbin, the French consul, sailed
northwards on five steamers.The first task of this expedition was if
possible, to retake Berber, or, failing that, to escort the _Abbas_
past the point of greatest danger; the second, to convey the most
recent news about Khartoum affairs to Lower Egypt; and the third was
to lend a helping hand to any force that might be coming up the Nile
or across the desert from the Red Sea.Five days after its departure
Gordon knew through a spy that Stewart's flotilla had passed Shendy in
safety, and had captured a valuable Arab convoy.It was not till
November that the truth was known how the ships bombarded Berber, and
passed that place not only in safety, but after causing the rebels
much loss and greater alarm, and then how Stewart and his European
companions went on in the small steamer _Abbas_ to bear the tale of
the wonderful defence of Khartoum to the outer world--a defence which,
wonderful as it was, really only reached the stage of the miraculous
after they had gone and had no further part in it.So far as Gordon's
military skill and prevision could arrange for their safety, he did
so, and with success.When the warships had to return he gave them the
best advice against treachery or ambuscade:--"Do not anchor near the
bank, do not collect wood at isolated spots, trust nobody."If they had paid strict heed to his advice, there
would have been no catastrophe at Dar Djumna.These reflections invest
with much force Gordon's own view of the matter:--"If _Abbas_ was
captured by treachery, then I am not to blame; neither am I to blame
if she struck a rock, for she drew under two feet of water; if they
were attacked and overpowered, then I am to blame."So perfect were
his arrangements that only treachery, aided by Stewart's
over-confidence, baffled them.With regard to the wisdom of the course pursued in thus sending away
all his European colleagues--the Austrian consul Hensall alone
refusing to quit Gordon and his place of duty--opinions will differ to
the end of time, but one is almost inclined to say that they could not
have been of much service to Gordon once their uppermost thought
became to quit Khartoum.The whole story is told very graphically in a
passage of Gordon's own diary:--

     "I determined to send the _Abbas_ down with an Arab captain.Then
     Stewart said he would go if I would exonerate him from deserting
     me.I said, 'You do not desert me.I cannot go; but if you go you
     do great service.'I then wrote him an official; he wanted me to
     write him an order.I said 'No; for, though I fear not
     responsibility, I will not put you in any danger in which I am
     not myself.'I wrote them a letter couched thus:--'_Abbas_ is
     going down; you say you are willing to go in her if I think you
     can do so in honour.You can go in honour, for you can do
     nothing here; and if you go you do me service in telegraphing my
     views.'"There are two points in this matter to which I must draw marked
attention.The suggestion for any European leaving Khartoum came from
M. Herbin, and when Gordon willingly acquiesced, Colonel Stewart asked
leave to do likewise.Mr Power, whose calculation was that provisions
would be exhausted before the end of September, then followed suit,
and not one of these three of the five Europeans in Khartoum seem to
have thought for a moment what would be the position of Gordon left
alone to cope with the danger from which they ran away.The suggestion
as to their going came in every case from themselves.Gordon, in his
thought for others, not merely threw no obstacle in their way, but as
far as he could provided for their safety as if they were a parcel of
women.But he declined all responsibility for their fate, as they went
not by his order but of their own free-will.He gave them his ships,
soldiers, and best counsel.They neglected the last, and were taken in
in a manner that showed less than a child's suspicion, and were
massacred at the very moment they felt sure of safety.It was a cruel
fate, and a harsh Nemesis speedily befell them for doing perhaps the
one unworthy thing of their lives--leaving their solitary companion to
face the tenfold dangers by which he would be beset.But it cannot be
allowed any longer that the onus of this matter should rest in any way
on Gordon.They went because they wanted to go, and he, knowing well
that men with such thoughts would be of no use to him ("you can do
nothing here") let them go, and even encouraged them to do so.Under
the circumstances he preferred to be alone.Colonel Donald Stewart was
a personal friend of mine, and a man whose courage in the ordinary
sense of the word could not be aspersed, but there cannot be two
opinions that he above all the others should not have left his
brother-in-arms alone in Khartoum.After their departure Gordon had to superintend everything himself,
and to resort to every means of husbanding the limited supply of
provisions he had left.He had also to anticipate a more vigorous
attack, for the Mahdi must quickly learn of the departure of the
steamers, the bombardment of Berber, and the favourable chance thus
provided for the capture of Khartoum.Nor was this the worst, for on
the occurrence of the disaster the Mahdi was promptly informed of the
loss of the _Abbas_ and the murder of the Europeans, and it was he
himself who sent in to Gordon the news of the catastrophe, with so
complete a list of the papers on the _Abbas_ as left no ground for
hope or disbelief.Unfortunately, before this bad news reached Gordon,
he had again, on 30th September, sent down to Shendy three
steamers--the _Talataween_, the _Mansourah_, and _Saphia_, with
troops on board, and the gallant Cassim-el-Mousse, there to await the
arrival of the relieving force.He somewhat later reinforced this
squadron with the _Bordeen_; and although one or two of these boats
returned occasionally to Khartoum, the rest remained permanently at
Shendy, and when the English troops reached the Nile opposite that
place all five were waiting them.Without entering too closely into
details, it is consequently correct to say that during the most
critical part of the siege Gordon deprived himself of the co-operation
of these vessels, each of which he valued at 2000 men, simply and
solely because he believed that reinforcements were close at hand, and
that some troops at the latest would arrive before the end of November
1884.As Gordon himself repeatedly said, it would have been far more
just if the Government had told him in March, when he first demanded
reinforcements as a right, that he must shift for himself.Then he
would have kept these boats by him, and triumphantly fought his way in
them to the Equator.But his trust in the Government, notwithstanding
all his experience, led him to weaken his own position in the hope of
facilitating their movements, and he found their aid a broken reed.In
only one passage of his journal does Gordon give expression to this
view, although it was always present to his mind:--"Truly the
indecision of our Government has been, from a military point of view,
a very great bore, for we never could act as if independent; there was
always the chance of their taking action, which hampered us."But in
the telegrams to Sir Evelyn Baring and Mr Egerton, which the
Government never dared to publish, and which are still an official
secret, he laid great stress on this point, and on Sir Evelyn Baring's
message forbidding him to retire to the Equator, so that, if he sought
safety in that direction, he would be indictable on a charge of
desertion.The various positions at Khartoum held by Gordon's force may be
briefly described.First, the town itself, on the left bank of the
Blue Nile, but stretching almost across to the right bank of the White
Nile, protected on the land side by a wall, in front of which was the
triple line of mines, and on the water side by the river and the
steamers.On the right bank of the Blue Nile was the small North Fort.Between the two stretched the island of Tuti, and at each end of the
wall, on the White Nile as well as the Blue, Gordon had stationed a
_santal_ or heavy-armed barge, carrying a gun.Unfortunately, a large
part of the western end of the Khartoum wall had been washed away by
an inundation of the Nile, but the mines supplied a substitute, and so
long as Omdurman Fort was held this weakness in the defences of
Khartoum did not greatly signify.That fort itself lay on the left
bank of the White Nile.It was well built and fairly strong, but the
position was faulty.It lay in a hollow, and the trench of the
extensive camp formed for Hicks's force furnished the enemy with
cover.It was also 1200 yards from the river bank, and when the enemy
became more enterprising it was impossible to keep up communication
with it.In Omdurman Fort was a specially selected garrison of 240
men, commanded by a gallant black officer, Ferratch or Faragalla
Pasha, who had been raised from a subordinate capacity to the
principal command under him by Gordon.Gordon's point of observation
was the flat roof of the Palace, whence he could see everything with
his telescope, and where he placed his best shots to bear on any point
that might seem hard pressed.Still more useful was it for the purpose
of detecting the remissness of his own troops and officers, and often
his telescope showed him sentries asleep at their posts, and officers
absent from the points they were supposed to guard.From the end of March until the close of the siege scarcely a day
passed without the exchange of artillery and rifle fire on one side or
the other of the beleaguered town.On special occasions the Khedive's
garrison would fire as many as forty or even fifty thousand rounds of
Remington cartridges, and the Arab fire was sometimes heavier.This
incessant fire, as the heroic defender wrote in his journal, murdered
sleep, and at last he became so accustomed to it that he could tell by
the sound where the firing was taking place.The most distant points
of the defence, such as the _santal_ on the White Nile and Fort
Omdurman, were two miles from the Palace; and although telegraphic
communication existed with them during the greater part of the siege,
the oral evidence as to the point of attack was often found the most
rapid means of obtaining information.This was still more advantageous
after the 12th of November, for on that day communications were cut
between Khartoum and Omdurman, and it was found impossible to restore
them.The only communications possible after that date were by bugle
and flag.At the time of this severance Gordon estimated that the
garrison of Omdurman had enough water and biscuit for six weeks, and
that there were 250,000 cartridges in the arsenal.Gordon did
everything in his power to aid Ferratch in the defence, and his
remaining steamer, the _Ismailia_, after the grounding of the
_Husseinyeh_ on the very day Omdurman was cut off, was engaged in
almost daily encounters with the Mahdists for that purpose.Owing to
Gordon's incessant efforts, and the gallantry of the garrison led by
Ferratch, Omdurman held out more than two months.It was not until
15th January that Ferratch, with Gordon's leave, surrendered, and then
when the Mahdists occupied the place, General Gordon had the
satisfaction of shelling them out of it, and showing that it was
untenable.The severance of Omdurman from Khartoum was the prelude to fiercer
fighting than had taken place at any time during the earlier stages of
the siege, and although particulars are not obtainable for the last
month of the period, there is no doubt that the struggle was
incessant, and that the fighting was renewed from day to day.It was
then that Gordon missed the ships lying idle at Shendy.If he had had
them Omdurman would not have fallen, nor would it have been so easy
for the Mahdi to transport the bulk of his force from the left to the
right bank of the White Nile, as he did for the final assault on the
fatal 26th January.At the end of October the Mahdi, accompanied by a far more numerous
force than Gordon thought he could raise, described by Slatin as
countless, pitched his camp a few miles south of Omdurman.On 8th
November his arrival was celebrated by a direct attack on the lines
south of Khartoum.The rebels in their fear of the hidden mines, which
was far greater than it need have been, as it was found they had been
buried too deep, resorted to the artifice of driving forward cows, and
by throwing rockets among them Gordon had the satisfaction of
spreading confusion in their ranks, repulsing the attack, and
capturing twenty of the animals.Four days later the rebels made the
desperate attack on Omdurman, when, as stated, communications were
cut, and the _Husseinyeh_ ran aground.In attempting to carry her off
and to check the further progress of the rebels the _Ismailia_ was
badly hit, and the incident was one of those only too frequent at all
stages of the siege, when Gordon wrote: "Every time I hear the gun
fire I have a twitch of the heart of gnawing anxiety for my penny
steamers."At the very moment that these fights were in progress he
wrote, 10th November: "To-day is the day I expected we should have had
some one of the Expedition here;" and he also recorded that we "have
enough biscuit for a month or so"--meaning at the outside six weeks.Throughout the whole of November rumours of a coming British
Expedition were prevalent, but they were of the vaguest and most
contradictory character.On 25th November Gordon learnt that it was
still at Ambukol, 185 miles further away from Khartoum than he had
expected, and his only comment under this acute disappointment was,
"This is lively!"Up to the arrival of the Mahdi daily desertions of his Arab and other
soldiers to Gordon took place, and by these and levies among the
townspeople all gaps in the garrison were more than filled up.Such
was the confidence in Gordon that it more than neutralised all the
intrigues of the Mahdi's agents in the besieged town, and scarcely a
man during the first seven months of the siege deserted him; but after
the arrival of the Mahdi there was a complete change in this respect.In the first place there were no more desertions to Gordon, and then
men began to leave him, partly, no doubt, from fear of the Mahdi, or
awakened fanaticism, but chiefly through the non-arrival of the
British Expedition, which had been so much talked about, yet which
never came.Still to all the enemy's invitations to surrender on the
most honourable terms Gordon gave defiant answers."I am here like
iron, and I hope to see the newly-arrived English;" and when the
situation had become little short of desperate, at the end of the
year, he still, with bitter agony at his heart, proudly rejected all
overtures, and sent the haughty message: "Can hold Khartoum for twelve
years."He had read the truth in
all the papers captured on Stewart's steamer, and he knew that
Gordon's resources were nearly spent.Even some of the messages Gordon
sent out by spies for Lord Wolseley's information fell into his hands,
and on one of these Slatin says it was written: "Can hold Khartoum at
the outside till the end of January."Although Gordon may be
considered to have more than held his own against all the power of the
Mahdi down to the capture of Omdurman Fort on 15th January, the Mahdi
knew that his straits must be desperate, and that unless the
expedition arrived he could not hold out much longer.The first
advance of the English troops on 3rd January across the desert towards
the Nile probably warned the enemy that now was the time to renew the
attack with greater vigour, but it does not seem that there is any
justification for the entirely hypothetical view that at any point the
Mahdi could have seized the unhappy town.Omdurman Fort itself fell,
not to the desperate onset of his Ghazis, but from the want of food
and ammunition, and with Gordon's expressed permission to the
commandant to surrender.Unfortunately the details of the most tragic
part of the siege are missing, but Gordon himself well summed up what
he had done up to the end of October when his position was secure, and
aid, as he thought, was close at hand:--

     "The news of Hicks's defeat was known in Cairo three weeks after
     the event occurred; since that date up to this (29th October
     1884) nine people have come up as reinforcements--myself,
     Stewart, Herbin, Hussein, Tongi, Ruckdi, and three servants, and
     not one penny of money.Of those who came up two, Stewart and
     Herbin, have gone down, Hussein is dead; so six alone remain,
     while we must have sent down over 1500 and 700 soldiers, total
     2200, including the two Pashas, Coetlogon, etc.The regulars, who
     were in arrears of pay for three months when I came, are now only
     owed half a month, while the Bashi-Bazouks are owed only a
     quarter month, and we have some L500 in the Treasury.It is quite
     a miracle.We have lost two battles, suffering severe losses in
     these actions of men and arms, and may have said to have
     scrambled through, for I cannot say we can lay claim to any great
     success during the whole time.I believe we have more ammunition
     (Remington) and more soldiers now than when I came up.We have
     L40,000 in Treasury _in paper_ and L500.When I came up there was
     L5000 in Treasury.We have L15,000 out in the town in paper
     money."At the point (14th December) when the authentic history of the
protracted siege and gallant defence of Khartoum stops, a pause may be
made to turn back and describe what the Government and country which
sent General Gordon on his most perilous mission, and made use of his
extraordinary devotion to the call of duty to extricate themselves
from a responsibility they had not the courage to face, had been doing
not merely to support their envoy, but to vindicate their own honour.The several messages which General Gordon had succeeded in getting
through had shown how necessary some reinforcement and support were at
the very commencement of the siege.The lapse of time, rendered the
more expressive by the long period of silence that fell over what was
taking place in the besieged town, showed, beyond need of
demonstration, the gravity of the case and the desperate nature of the
situation.But a very little of the knowledge at the command of the
Government from a number of competent sources would have enabled it to
foresee what was certain to happen, and to have provided some remedy
for the peril long before the following despairing message from Gordon
showed that the hour when any aid would be useful had almost expired.This was the passage, dated 13th December, in the last (sixth) volume
of the Journal, but the substance of which reached Lord Wolseley by
one of Gordon's messengers at Korti on 31st December:--

     "We are going to send down the _Bordeen_ the day after to-morrow,
     and with her I shall send this Journal._If some effort is not
     made before ten days' time the town will fall._ It is
     inexplicable this delay.If the Expeditionary forces have reached
     the river and met my steamers, one hundred men are all that we
     require just to show themselves.... Even if the town falls under
     the nose of the Expeditionary forces it will not in my opinion
     justify the abandonment of Senaar and Kassala, or of the
     Equatorial Province by H.M.All that is absolutely
     necessary is for fifty of the Expeditionary force to get on board
     a steamer and come up to Halfiyeh, and thus let their presence be
     felt.This is not asking much, but it must happen _at once_, or
     it will (as usual) be too late."The motives which induced Mr Gladstone's Government to send General
Gordon to the Soudan in January 1884 were, as has been clearly shown,
the selfish desire to appease public opinion, and to shirk in the
easiest possible manner a great responsibility.They had no policy at
all, but they had one supreme wish, viz.to cut off the Soudan from
Egypt; and if the Mahdi had only known their wishes and pressed on,
and treated the Khartoum force as he had treated that under Hicks,
there would have been no garrisons to rescue, and that British
Government would have done nothing.It recked nothing of the grave
dangers that would have accrued from the complete triumph of the
Mahdi, or of the outbreak that must have followed in Lower Egypt if
his tide of success had not been checked as it was single-handed by
General Gordon, through the twelve months' defence of Khartoum.Still
it could not quite stoop to the dishonour of abandoning these
garrisons, and of making itself an accomplice to the Mahdi's
butcheries, nor could it altogether turn a deaf ear to the
representations and remonstrances of even such a puppet prince as the
Khedive Tewfik.England was then far more mistress of the situation at
Cairo than she is now, but a helpless refusal to discharge her duty
might have provoked Europe into action at the Porte that would have
proved inconvenient and damaging to her position and reputation.Therefore the Government fell back on General Gordon, and the hope was
even indulged that, under his exceptional reputation, the evacuation
of the Soudan might not only be successfully carried out, but that his
success might induce the public and the world to accept that
abnegation of policy as the acme of wisdom.In all this they were
destined to a complete awakening, and the only matter of surprise is
that they should have sent so well-known a character as General
Gordon, whose independence and contempt for official etiquette and
restraint were no secrets at the Foreign and War Offices, on a mission
in which they required him not only to be as indifferent to the
national honour as they were, but also to be tied and restrained by
the shifts and requirements of an embarrassed executive.At a very early stage of the mission the Government obtained evidence
that Gordon's views on the subject were widely different from theirs.They had evidently persuaded themselves that their policy was Gordon's
policy; and before he was in Khartoum a week he not merely points out
that the evacuation policy is not his but theirs, and that although he
thinks its execution is still possible, the true policy is, "if Egypt
is to be quiet, that the Mahdi must be smashed up."The hopes that had
been based on Gordon's supposed complaisance in the post of
representative on the Nile of the Government policy were thus
dispelled, and it became evident that Gordon, instead of being a tool,
was resolved to be master, so far as the mode of carrying out the
evacuation policy with full regard for the dictates of honour was to
be decided.Nor was this all, or the worst of the revelations made to
the Government in the first few weeks after his arrival at Khartoum.While expressing his willingness and intention to discharge the chief
part of his task, viz.the withdrawal of the garrisons, which was all
the Government cared about, he also descanted on the moral duty and
the inevitable necessity of setting up a provisional government that
should avert anarchy and impose some barrier to the Mahdi's progress.All this was trying to those who only wished to be rid of the whole
matter, but Gordon did not spare their feelings, and phrase by phrase
he revealed what his own policy would be and what his inner wishes,
however repressed his charge might keep them, really were.Having told them that "the Mahdi must be smashed up," he went on to
say that "we cannot hurry over this affair" (the future of the Soudan)
"if we do we shall incur disaster," and again that, although "it is a
miserable country it is joined to Egypt, and it would be difficult to
divorce the two."Within a very few weeks, therefore, the Government
learnt that its own agent was the most forcible and damaging critic of
the policy of evacuation, and that the worries of the Soudan question
for an administration not resolute enough to solve the difficulty in a
thorough manner were increased and not diminished by Gordon's mission.At that point the proposition was made and supported by several
members of the Cabinet that Gordon should be recalled.There is no
doubt that this step would have been taken but for the fear that it
would aggravate the difficulties of the English expedition sent to
Souakim under the command of General Gerald Graham to retrieve the
defeat of Baker Pasha.Failing the adoption of that extreme measure,
which would at least have been straightforward and honest, and
ignoring what candour seemed to demand if a decision had been come to
to render Gordon no support, and to bid him shift for himself, the
Government resorted to the third and least justifiable course of all,
viz.of showing indifference to the legitimate requests of their
emissary, and of putting off definite action until the very last
moment.We have seen that Gordon made several specific demands in the first
six weeks of his stay at Khartoum--that is, in the short period before
communication was cut off.He wanted Zebehr, 200 troops at Berber, or
even at Wady Halfa, and the opening of the route from Souakim to the
Nile.To these requests not one favourable answer was given, and the
not wholly unnatural rejection of the first rendered it more than ever
necessary to comply with the others.They were such as ought to have
been granted, and in anticipation they had been suggested and
discussed before Gordon felt bound to urge them as necessary for the
security of his position at Khartoum.Even Sir Evelyn Baring had
recommended in February the despatch of 200 men to Assouan for the
moral effect, and that was the very reason why Gordon asked, in the
first place, for the despatch of a small British force to at least
Wady Halfa.It is possible that one of the chief reasons for the
Government rejecting all these suggestions, and also, it must be
remembered, doing nothing in their place towards the relief and
support of their representative, may have been the hope that this
treatment would have led him to resign and throw up his mission.They
would then have been able to declare that, as the task was beyond the
powers of General Gordon, they were only coming to the prudent and
logical conclusion in saying that nothing could be done, and that the
garrisons had better come to terms with the Mahdi.Unfortunately for
those who favoured the evasion of trouble as the easiest and best way
out of the difficulty, Gordon had high notions as to what duty
required.No difficulty had terrors for him, and while left at the
post of power and responsibility he would endeavour to show himself
equal to the charge.Yet there can be no doubt that those who sent him would have rejoiced
if he had formally asked to be relieved of the task he had accepted,
and Mr Gladstone stated on the 3rd April that "Gordon was under no
orders and no restraint to stay at Khartoum."A significant answer to
the fact represented in that statement was supplied, when, ten days
later, silence fell on Khartoum, and remained unbroken for more than
five months.But at the very moment that the Prime Minister made that
statement as to Gordon's liberty of movement, the Government knew of
the candid views which he had expressed as to the proper policy for
the Soudan.It should have been apparent that, unless they and their
author were promptly repudiated, and unless the latter was stripped of
his official authority, the Government would, however tardily and
reluctantly, be drawn after its representative into a policy of
intervention in the Soudan, which it, above everything else,
wished to avoid.He told them "time,"
"reinforcements," and a very considerable expenditure was necessary to
honourably carry out their policy of evacuation.They were not
prepared to concede any of these save the last, and even the money
they sent him was lost because they would send it by Berber instead of
Kassala.But they knew that "the order and restraint" which kept
Gordon at Khartoum was the duty he had contracted towards them when he
accepted his mission, and which was binding on a man of his principles
until they chose to relieve him of the task.The fear of public
opinion had more to do with their abstaining from the step of ordering
his recall than the hope that his splendid energy and administrative
power might yet provide some satisfactory issue from the dilemma, for
at the very beginning it was freely given out that "General Gordon
was exceeding his instructions."The interruption of communications with Khartoum at least suspended
Gordon's constant representations as to what he thought the right
policy, as well as his demands for the fulfilment by the Government of
their side of the contract.It was then that Lord Granville seemed to
pluck up heart of grace, and to challenge Gordon's right to remain at
Khartoum.On 23rd April Lord Granville asked for explanation of "cause
of detention."Unfortunately it was not till months later that the
country knew of Gordon's terse and humorous reply, "cause of
detention, these horribly plucky Arabs."Lord Granville, thinking this
despatch not clear enough, followed it up on 17th May by instructing
Mr Egerton, then acting for Sir Evelyn Baring, to send the following
remonstrance to Gordon:

     "As the original plan for the evacuation of the Soudan has been
     dropped, and as aggressive operations cannot be undertaken with
     the countenance of H.M.'s Government, General Gordon is enjoined
     to consider, and either to report upon, or, if possible, to adopt
     at the first proper moment measures for his own removal and for
     that of the Egyptians at Khartoum who have suffered for him, or
     who have served him faithfully, including their wives and
     children, by whatever route he may consider best, having especial
     regard to his own safety and that of the other British subjects."Then followed suggestions and authority to pay so much a head for
refugees safely escorted to Korosko.The comment Gordon made on that,
and similar despatches, to save himself and any part of the garrison
he could, was that he was not so mean as to desert those who had nobly
stood by him and committed themselves on the strength of his word.It is impossible to go behind the collective responsibility of the
Government and to attempt to fix any special responsibility or blame
on any individual member of that Government.The facts as I read them
show plainly that there was a complete abnegation of policy or purpose
on the part of the British Government, that Gordon was then sent as a
sort of stop-gap, and that when it was revealed that he had strong
views and clear plans, not at all in harmony with those who sent him,
it was thought, by the Ministers who had not the courage to recall
him, very inconsiderate and insubordinate of him to remain at his post
and to refuse all the hints given him, that he ought to resign unless
he would execute a _sauve qui peut_ sort of retreat to the frontier.Very harsh things have been said of Mr Gladstone and his Cabinet on
this point, but considering their views and declarations, it is not so
very surprising that Gordon's boldness and originality alarmed and
displeased them.Their radical fault in these early stages of the
question was not that they were indifferent to Gordon's demands, but
that they had absolutely no policy.They could not even come to the
decision, as Gordon wrote, "to abandon altogether and not care what
happens."But all these minor points were merged in a great common national
anxiety when month after month passed during the spring and summer of
1884, and not a single word issued from the tomb-like silence of
Khartoum.People might argue that the worst could not have happened,
as the Mahdi would have been only too anxious to proclaim his triumph
far and wide if Khartoum had fallen.Anxiety may be diminished, but is
not banished, by a calculation of probabilities, and the military
spirit and capacity exhibited by the Mahdi's forces under Osman Digma
in the fighting with General Graham's well-equipped British force at
Teb and Tamanieb revealed the greatness of the peril with which Gordon
had to deal at Khartoum where he had only the inadequate and
untrustworthy garrison described by Colonel de Coetlogon.During the
summer of 1884 there was therefore a growing fear, not only that the
worst news might come at any moment, but that in the most favourable
event any news would reveal the desperate situation to which Gordon
had been reduced, and with that conviction came the thought, not
whether he had exactly carried out what Ministers had expected him to
do, but solely of his extraordinary courage and devotion to his
country, which had led him to take up a thankless task without the
least regard for his comfort or advantage, and without counting the
odds.There was at least one Minister in the Cabinet who was struck by
that single-minded conduct; and as early as April, when his colleagues
were asking the formal question why Gordon did not leave Khartoum, the
Marquis of Hartington, then Minister of War, and now Duke of
Devonshire, began to inquire as to the steps necessary to rescue the
emissary, while still adhering to the policy of the Administration of
which he formed part.During the whole of that summer the present Duke
of Devonshire advocated the special claim of General Gordon on the
Government, whose mandate he had so readily accepted, and urged the
necessity of special measures being taken at the earliest moment to
save the gallant envoy from what seemed the too probable penalty of
his own temerity and devotion.But for his energetic and consistent
representations the steps that were taken--all too late as they
proved--never would have been taken at all, or deferred to such a date
as to let the public see by the event that there was no use in
throwing away money and precious lives on a lost cause.If the first place among those in power--for of my own and other
journalists' efforts in the Press to arouse public opinion and to urge
the Government to timely action it is unnecessary to speak--is due to
the Duke of Devonshire, the second may reasonably be claimed by Lord
Wolseley.This recognition is the more called for here, because the
most careful consideration of the facts has led me to the conclusion,
which I would gladly avoid the necessity of expressing if it were
possible, that Lord Wolseley was responsible for the failure of the
relief expedition.This stage of responsibility has not yet been
reached, and it must be duly set forth that on 24th July Lord
Wolseley, then Adjutant-General, wrote a noble letter, stating that,
as he "did not wish to share the responsibility of leaving Charley
Gordon to his fate," he recommended "immediate action," and "the
despatch of a small brigade of between three and four thousand British
soldiers to Dongola, so that they might reach that place about 15th
October."But even that date was later than it ought to have been,
especially when the necessity of getting the English troops back as
early in the New Year as possible was considered, and in the
subsequent recriminations that ensued, the blame for being late from
the start was sought to be thrown on the badness of the Nile flood
that year.General Gordon himself cruelly disposed of that theory or
excuse when he wrote, "It was not a bad Nile; quite an average one.Still, Lord Wolseley must not be
robbed of the credit of having said on 24th July that an expedition
was necessary to save Gordon, "his old friend and Crimean comrade,"
towards whom Wolseley himself had contracted a special moral
obligation for his prominent share in inducing him to accept the very
mission that had already proved so full of peril.In short, if the
plain truth must be told, Lord Wolseley was far more responsible for
the despatch of General Gordon to Khartoum than Mr Gladstone.The result of the early representations of the Duke of Devonshire, and
the definite suggestion of Lord Wolseley, was that the Government gave
in when the public anxiety became so great at the continued silence of
Khartoum, and acquiesced in the despatch of an expedition to relieve
General Gordon.Having once made the concession, it must be allowed
that they showed no niggard spirit in sanctioning the expedition and
the proposals of the military authorities.The sum of ten millions was
devoted to the work of rescuing Gordon by the very persons who had
rejected his demands for the hundredth part of that total.Ten
thousand men selected from the _elite_ of the British army were
assigned to the task for which he had begged two hundred men in vain.It is impossible here to enter closely into the causes which led to
the expansion of the three or four thousand British infantry into a
special corps of ten thousand fighting men, picked from the crack
regiments of the army, and composed of every arm of the service
compelled to fight under unaccustomed conditions.The local
authorities--in particular Major Kitchener, now the Sirdar of the
Egyptian army, who is slowly recovering from the Mahdi the provinces
which should never have been left in his possession--protested that
the expedition should be a small one, and if their advice had been
taken the cost would have been about one-fourth that incurred, and the
force would have reached Khartoum by that 11th November on which
Gordon expected to see the first man of it.But Major Kitchener,
although, as Gordon wrote, "one of the few really first-class officers
in the British army," was only an individual, and his word did not
possess a feather's weight before the influence of the Pall Mall band
of warriors who have farmed out our little wars--India, of course,
excepted--of the last thirty years for their own glorification.So
great a chance of fame as "the rescue of Gordon" was not to be left to
some unknown brigadiers, or to the few line regiments, the proximity
of whose stations entitled them to the task.That would be neglecting
the favours of Providence.For so noble a task the control of the most
experienced commander in the British army would alone suffice, and
when he took the field his staff had to be on the extensive scale that
suited his dignity and position.As there would be some reasonable
excuse for the dispensation of orders and crosses from a campaign
against a religious leader who had not yet known defeat, any friend
might justly complain if he was left behind.To justify so brilliant a
staff, no ordinary British force would suffice.Therefore our
household brigade, our heavy cavalry, and our light cavalry were
requisitioned for their best men, and these splendid troops were
drafted and amalgamated into special corps--heavy and light
camelry--for work that would have been done far better and more
efficiently by two regiments of Bengal Lancers.If all this effort and
expenditure had resulted in success, it would be possible to keep
silent and shrug one's shoulders; but when the mode of undertaking
this expedition can be clearly shown to have been the direct cause of
its failure, silence would be a crime.When Lord Wolseley told the
soldiers at Korti on their return from Metemmah, "It was not _your_
fault that Gordon has perished and Khartoum fallen," the positiveness
of his assurance may have been derived from the inner conviction of
his own stupendous error.The expedition was finally sanctioned in August, and the news of its
coming was known to General Gordon in September, before, indeed, his
own despatches of 31st July were received in London, and broke the
suspense of nearly half a year.He thought that only a small force was
coming, under the command of Major-General Earle, and he at once, as
already described, sent his steamers back to Shendy, there to await
the troops and convey them to Khartoum.He seems to have calculated
that three months from the date of the message informing him of the
expedition would suffice for the conveyance of the troops as far as
Berber or Metemmah, and at that rate General Earle would have arrived
where his steamers awaited him early in November.Gordon's views as to
the object of the expedition, which somebody called the Gordon Relief
Expedition, were thus clearly expressed:--

     "I altogether decline the imputation that the projected
     expedition has come to relieve me.It has come to save our
     National honour in extricating the garrisons, etc., from a
     position in which our action in Egypt has placed these garrisons.As for myself, I could make good my retreat at any moment, if I
     wished.Now realise what would happen if this first relief
     expedition was to bolt, and the steamers fell into the hands of
     the Mahdi.This second relief expedition (for the honour of
     England engaged in extricating garrisons) would be somewhat
     hampered.We, the first and second expeditions, are equally
     engaged for the honour of England.I came up
     to extricate the garrison, and failed.Earle comes up to
     extricate garrisons, and I hope succeeds.Earle does not come to
     extricate me.The extrication of the garrisons was supposed to
     affect our "National honour."If Earle succeeds, the "National
     honour" thanks him, and I hope recommends him, but it is
     altogether independent of me, who, for failing, incurs its blame.I am not _the rescued lamb_, and I will not be."Lord Wolseley, still possessed with the idea that, now that an
expedition had been sanctioned, the question of time was not of
supreme importance, and that the relieving expedition might be carried
out in a deliberate manner, which would be both more effective and
less exposed to risk, did not reach Cairo till September, and had only
arrived at Wady Halfa on 8th October, when his final instructions
reached him in the following form:--"The primary object of your
expedition is to bring away General Gordon and Colonel Stewart, and
you are not to advance further south than necessary to attain that
object, and when it has been secured, no further offensive operations
of any kind are to be undertaken."It had,
however, determined to leave the garrisons to their fate, despite the
National honour being involved, at the very moment that it sanctioned
an enormous expenditure to try and save the lives of its
long-neglected representatives, Gordon and Colonel Stewart.With
extraordinary shrewdness, Gordon detected the hollowness of its
purpose, and wrote:--"I very much doubt what is really going to be the
policy of our Government, even now that the Expedition is at Dongola,"
and if they intend ratting out, "the troops had better not come beyond
Berber till the question of what will be done is settled."The receipt of Gordon's and Power's despatches of July showed that
there were, at the time of their being written, supplies for four
months, which would have carried the garrison on till the end of
November.As the greater part of that period had expired when these
documents reached Lord Wolseley's hands, it was quite impossible to
doubt that time had become the most important factor of all in the
situation.The chance of being too late would even then have presented
itself to a prudent commander, and, above all, to a friend hastening
to the rescue of a friend.The news that Colonel Stewart and some
other Europeans had been entrapped and murdered near Merowe, which
reached the English commander from different sources before Gordon
confirmed it in his letters, was also calculated to stimulate, by
showing that Gordon was alone, and had single-handed to conduct the
defence of a populous city.Hard on the heels of that intelligence
came Gordon's letter of 4th November to Lord Wolseley, who received it
at Dongola on 14th of the same month.The letter was a long one, but
only two passages need be quoted:--"At Metemmah, waiting your orders,
are five steamers with nine guns."Did it not occur to anyone how
greatly, at the worst stage of the siege, Gordon had thus weakened
himself to assist the relieving expedition?Even for that reason there
was not a day or an hour to be lost.But the letter contained a worse and more alarming passage:--"We can
hold out forty days with ease; after that it will be difficult."Forty
days would have meant till 14th December, one month ahead of the day
Lord Wolseley received the news, but the message was really more
alarming than the form in which it was published, for there is no
doubt that the word "difficult" is the official rendering of Gordon's,
a little indistinctly written, word "desperate."In face of that
alarming message, which only stated facts that ought to have been
surmised, if not known, it was no longer possible to pursue the
leisurely promenade up the Nile, which was timed so as to bring the
whole force to Khartoum in the first week of March.Rescue by the most
prominent general and swell troops of England at Easter would hardly
gratify the commandant and garrison starved into surrender the
previous Christmas, and that was the exact relationship between
Wolseley's plans and Gordon's necessities.The date at which Gordon's supplies would be exhausted varied not from
any miscalculation, but because on two successive occasions he
discovered large stores of grain and biscuits, which had been stolen
from the public granaries before his arrival.The supplies that would
all have disappeared in November were thus eked out, first till the
middle of December, and then finally till the end of January, but
there is no doubt that they would not have lasted as long as they did
if in the last month of the siege he had not given the civil
population permission to leave the doomed town.From any and from
every point of view, there was not the shadow of an excuse for a
moment's delay after the receipt of that letter on 14th November.With the British Exchequer at a commander's back, it is easy to
organise an expedition on an elaborate scale, and to carry it out with
the nicety of perfection, but for the realisation of these ponderous
plans there is one thing more necessary, and that is time.I have no
doubt if Gordon's letter had said "granaries full, can hold out till
Easter," that Lord Wolseley's deliberate march--Cairo, September 27;
Wady Halfa, October 8; Dongola, November 14; Korti, December 30;
Metemmah any day in February, and Khartoum, March 3, and those were
the approximate dates of his grand plan of campaign--would have been
fully successful, and held up for admiration as a model of skill.Unfortunately, it would not do for the occasion, as Gordon was on the
verge of starvation and in desperate straits when the rescuing force
reached Dongola.It is not easy to alter the plan of any campaign, nor
to adapt a heavy moving machine to the work suitable for a light one.To feed 10,000 British soldiers on the middle Nile was alone a feat of
organisation such as no other country could have attempted, but the
effort was exhausting, and left no reserve energy to despatch that
quick-moving battalion which could have reached Gordon's steamers
early in December, and would have reinforced the Khartoum garrison,
just as Havelock and Outram did the Lucknow Residency.Dongola is only 100 miles below Debbeh, where the intelligence
officers and a small force were on that 14th November; Ambukol,
specially recommended by Gordon as the best starting-point, is less
than fifty miles, and Korti, the point selected by Lord Wolseley, is
exactly that distance above Debbeh.The Bayuda desert route by the
Jakdul Wells to Metemmah is 170 miles.At Metemmah were the five
steamers with nine guns to convoy the desperately needed succour to
Khartoum.The energy expended on the despatch of 10,000 men up 150
miles of river, if concentrated on 1000 men, must have given a
speedier result, but, as the affair was managed, the last day of the
year 1884 was reached before there was even that small force ready to
make a dash across the desert for Metemmah.The excuses made for this, as the result proved, fatal delay of taking
six weeks to do what--the forward movement from Dongola to Korti, not
of the main force, but of 1000 men--ought to have been done in one
week, were the dearth of camels, the imperfect drill of the camel
corps, and, it must be added, the exaggerated fear of the Mahdi's
power.When it was attempted to quicken the slow forward movement of
the unwieldy force confusion ensued, and no greater progress was
effected than if things had been left undisturbed.The erratic policy
in procuring camels caused them at the critical moment to be not
forthcoming in anything approaching the required numbers, and this
difficulty was undoubtedly increased by the treachery of Mahmoud
Khalifa, who was the chief contractor we employed.Even when the
camels were procured, they had to be broken in for regular work, and
the men accustomed to the strange drill and mode of locomotion.The
last reason perhaps had the most weight of all, for although the Mahdi
with all his hordes had been kept at bay by Gordon single-handed, Lord
Wolseley would risk nothing in the field.Probably the determining
reason for that decision was that the success of a small force would
have revealed how absolutely unnecessary his large and costly
expedition was.Yet events were to show beyond possibility of
contraversion that this was the case, for not less than two-thirds of
the force were never in any shape or form actively employed, and, as
far as the fate of Gordon went, might just as well have been left at
home.They had, however, to be fed and provided for at the end of a
line of communication of over 1200 miles.Still, notwithstanding all these delays and disadvantages, a
well-equipped force of 1000 men was ready on 30th December to leave
Korti to cross the 170 miles of the Bayuda desert.That route was well
known and well watered.There were wells at, at least, five places,
and the best of these was at Jakdul, about half-way across.The
officer entrusted with the command was Major-General Sir Herbert
Stewart, an officer of a gallant disposition, who was above all others
impressed with the necessity of making an immediate advance, with the
view of throwing some help into Khartoum.Unfortunately he was
trammelled by his instructions, which were to this effect--he was to
establish a fort at Jakdul; but if he found an insufficiency of water
there he was at liberty to press on to Metemmah.His action was to be
determined by the measure of his own necessities, not of Gordon's, and
so Lord Wolseley arranged throughout.He reached that place with his
1100 fighting men, but on examining the wells and finding them full,
he felt bound to obey the orders of his commander, viz.to establish
the fort, and then return to Korti for a reinforcement.It was a case
when Nelson's blind eye might have been called into requisition, but
even the most gallant officers are not Nelsons.The first advance of General Stewart to Jakdul, reached on 3rd January
1885, was in every respect a success.It was achieved without loss,
unopposed, and was quite of the nature of a surprise.The British
relieving force was at last, after many months' report, proved to be
a reality, and although late, it was not too late.If General Stewart
had not been tied by his instructions, but left a free hand, he would
undoubtedly have pressed on, and a reinforcement of British troops
would have entered Khartoum even before the fall of Omdurman.But it
must be recorded also that Sir Herbert Stewart was not inspired by the
required flash of genius.He paid more deference to the orders of Lord
Wolseley than to the grave peril of General Gordon.General Stewart returned to Korti on the 7th January, bringing with
him the tired camels, and he found that during his absence still more
urgent news had been received from Gordon, to the effect that if aid
did not come within ten days from the 14th December, the place might
fall, and that under the nose of the expedition.The native who
brought this intimation arrived at Korti the day after General Stewart
left, but a messenger could easily have caught him up and given him
orders to press on at all cost.It was not realised at the time, but
the neglect to give that order, and the rigid adherence to a
preconceived plan, proved fatal to the success of the whole
expedition.The first advance of General Stewart had been in the nature of a
surprise, but it aroused the Mahdi to a sense of the position, and the
subsequent delay gave him a fortnight to complete his plans and assume
the offensive.On 12th January--that is, nine days after his first arrival at
Jakdul--General Stewart reached the place a second time with the
second detachment of another 1000 men--the total fighting strength of
the column being raised to about 2300 men.For whatever errors had
been committed, and their consequences, the band of soldiers assembled
at Jakdul on that 12th of January could in no sense be held
responsible.Without making any invidious comparisons, it may be
truthfully said that such a splendid fighting force was never
assembled in any other cause, and the temper of the men was strung to
a high point of enthusiasm by the thought that at last they had
reached the final stage of the long journey to rescue Gordon.A number
of causes, principally the fatigue of the camels from the treble
journey between Korti and Jakdul, made the advance very slow, and five
days were occupied in traversing the forty-five miles between Jakdul
and the wells at Abou Klea, themselves distant twenty miles from
Metemmah.On the morning of 17th January it became clear that the
column was in presence of an enemy.At the time of Stewart's first arrival at Jakdul there were no hostile
forces in the Bayuda desert.At Berber was a considerable body of the
Mahdi's followers, and both Metemmah and Shendy were held in his name.At the latter place a battery or small fort had been erected, and in
an encounter between it and Gordon's steamers one of the latter had
been sunk, thus reducing their total to four.But there were none of
the warrior tribes of Kordofan and Darfour at any of these places, or
nearer than the six camps which had been established round Khartoum.The news of the English advance made the Mahdi bestir himself, and as
it was known that the garrison of Omdurman was reduced to the lowest
straits, and could not hold out many days, the Mahdi despatched some
of his best warriors of the Jaalin, Degheim, and Kenana tribes to
oppose the British troops in the Bayuda desert.It was these men who
opposed the further advance of Sir Herbert Stewart's column at Abou
Klea.It is unnecessary to describe the desperate assault these
gallant warriors made on the somewhat cumbrous and ill-arranged square
of the British force, or the ease and tremendous loss with which these
fanatics were beaten off, and never allowed to come to close quarters,
save at one point.The infantry soldiers, who formed two sides of the
square, signally repulsed the onset, not a Ghazi succeeded in getting
within a range of 300 yards; but on another side, cavalrymen, doing
infantry soldiers' unaccustomed work, did not adhere to the strict
formation necessary, and trained for the close _melee_, and with the
_gaudia certaminis_ firing their blood, they recklessly allowed the
Ghazis to come to close quarters, and their line of the square was
impinged upon.In that close fighting, with the Heavy Camel Corps men
and the Naval Brigade, the Blacks suffered terribly, but they also
inflicted loss in return.Of a total loss on the British side of
sixty-five killed and sixty-one wounded, the Heavy Camel Corps lost
fifty-two, and the Sussex Regiment, performing work to which it was
thoroughly trained, inflicted immense loss on the enemy at hardly any
cost to itself.Among the slain was the gallant Colonel Fred.Burnaby,
one of the noblest and gentlest, as he was physically the strongest,
officers in the British army.There is no doubt that signal as was
this success, it shook the confidence of the force.The men were
resolute to a point of ferocity, but the leaders' confidence in
themselves and their task had been rudely tried; and yet the breaking
of the square had been clearly due to a tactical blunder, and the
inability of the cavalry to adapt themselves to a strange position.On the 18th January the march, rendered slower by the conveyance of
the wounded, was resumed, but no fighting took place on that day,
although it was clear that the enemy had not been dispersed.On the
19th, when the force had reached the last wells at Abou Kru or Gubat,
it became clear that another battle was to be fought.One of the first
shots seriously wounded Sir Herbert Stewart, and during the whole of
the affair many of our men were carried off by the heavy rifle fire of
the enemy.Notwithstanding that our force fought under many
disadvantages and was not skilfully handled, the Mahdists were driven
off with terrible loss, while our force had thirty-six killed and one
hundred and seven wounded.Notwithstanding these two defeats, the
enemy were not cowed, and held on to Metemmah, in which no doubt those
who had taken part in the battles were assisted by a force from
Berber.The 20th January was wasted in inaction, caused by the large
number of wounded, and when on 21st January Metemmah was attacked, the
Mahdists showed so bold a front that Sir Charles Wilson, who succeeded
to the command on Sir Herbert Stewart being incapacitated by his, as
it proved, mortal wound, drew off his force.This was the more
disappointing, because Gordon's four steamers arrived during the
action and took a gallant part in the attack.It was a pity for the
effect produced that that attack should have been distinctly
unsuccessful.The information the captain of these steamers, the
gallant Cassim el Mousse, gave about Gordon's position was alarming.He stated that Gordon had sent him a message informing him that if aid
did not come in ten days from the 14th December his position would be
desperate, and the volumes of his journal which he handed over to Sir
Charles Wilson amply corroborated this statement--the very last entry
under that date being these memorable words: "Now, mark this, if the
Expeditionary Force--and I ask for no more than 200 men--does not come
in ten days, _the town may fall_, and I have done my best for the
honour of our country.The other letters handed over by Cassim el Mousse amply bore out the
view that a month before the British soldiers reached the last stretch
of the Nile to Khartoum Gordon's position was desperate.In one to his
sister he concluded, "I am quite happy, thank God, and, like Lawrence,
have tried to do my duty," and in another to his friend Colonel
Watson: "I think the game is up, and send Mrs Watson, yourself, and
Graham my adieux.We may expect a catastrophe in the town in or after
ten days.This would not have happened (if it does happen) if our
people had taken better precautions as to informing us of their
movements, but this is'spilt milk.'"In face of these documents,
which were in the hands of Sir Charles Wilson on 21st January, it is
impossible to agree with his conclusion in his book "Korti to
Khartoum," that "the delay in the arrival of the steamers at Khartoum
was unimportant" as affecting the result.Every hour, every minute,
had become of vital importance.If the whole Jakdul column had been
destroyed in the effort, it was justifiable to do so as the price of
reinforcing Gordon, so that he could hold out until the main body
under Lord Wolseley could arrive.I am not one of those who think
that Sir Charles Wilson, who only came on the scene at the last
moment, should be made the scapegoat for the mistakes of others in the
earlier stages of the expedition, and I hold now, as strongly as when
I wrote the words, the opinion that, "in the face of what he did, any
suggestion that he might have done more would seem both ungenerous and
untrue."Still the fact remains that on 21st January there was left a
sufficient margin of time to avert what actually occurred at daybreak
on the 26th, for the theory that the Mahdi could have entered the town
one hour before he did was never a serious argument, while the
evidence of Slatin Pasha strengthens the view that Gordon was at the
last moment only overcome by the Khalifa's resorting to a surprise.On
one point of fact Sir Charles Wilson seems also to have been in error.He fixes the fall of Omdurman at 6th January, whereas Slatin, whose
information on the point ought to be unimpeachable, states that it did
not occur until the 15th of that month.When Sir Herbert Stewart had fought and won the battle of Abou Klea,
it was his intention on reaching the Nile, as he expected to do the
next day, to put Sir Charles Wilson on board one of Gordon's own
steamers and send him off at once to Khartoum.The second battle and
Sir Herbert Stewart's fatal wound destroyed that project.But this
plan might have been adhered to so far as the altered circumstances
would allow.Sir Charles Wilson had succeeded to the command, and many
matters affecting the position of the force had to be settled before
he was free to devote himself to the main object of the dash forward,
viz.the establishment of communications with Gordon and Khartoum.As
the consequence of that change in his own position, it would have been
natural that he should have delegated the task to someone else, and in
Lord Charles Beresford, as brave a sailor as ever led a cutting-out
party, there was the very man for the occasion.Unfortunately, Sir
Charles Wilson did not take this step for, as I believe, the sole
reason that he was the bearer of an important official letter to
General Gordon, which he did not think could be entrusted to any other
hands.But for that circumstance it is permissible to say that one
steamer--there was more than enough wood on the other three steamers
to fit one out for the journey to Khartoum--would have sailed on the
morning of the 22nd, the day after the force sheered off from
Metemmah, and, at the latest, it would have reached Khartoum on
Sunday, the 25th, just in time to avert the catastrophe.But as it was done, the whole of the 22nd and 23rd were taken up in
preparing two steamers for the voyage, and in collecting scarlet coats
for the troops, so that the effect of real British soldiers coming up
the Nile might be made more considerable.on Saturday, the
24th, Sir Charles Wilson at last sailed with the two steamers,
_Bordeen_ and _Talataween_, and it was then quite impossible for the
steamers to cover the ninety-five miles to Khartoum in time.Moreover,
the Nile had, by this time, sunk to such a point of shallowness that
navigation was specially slow and even dangerous.The Shabloka
cataract was passed at 3 P.M.on the afternoon of Sunday; then the
_Bordeen_ ran on a rock, and was not got clear till 9 P.M.On the 27th, Halfiyeh, eight miles from Khartoum, was
reached, and the Arabs along the banks shouted out that Gordon was
killed and Khartoum had fallen.Still Sir Charles Wilson went on past
Tuti Island, until he made sure that Khartoum had fallen and was in
the hands of the dervishes.Then he ordered full steam down stream
under as hot a fire as he ever wished to experience, Gordon's black
gunners working like demons at their guns.On the 29th the
_Talataween_ ran on a rock and sank, its crew being taken on board the
_Bordeen_.Two days later the _Bordeen_ shared the same fate, but the
whole party was finally saved on the 4th February by a third steamer,
brought up by Lord Charles Beresford.But these matters, and the
subsequent progress of the Expedition which had so ignominiously
failed, have no interest for the reader of Gordon's life.It failed to
accomplish the object which alone justified its being sent, and, it
must be allowed, that it accepted its failure in a very tame and
spiritless manner.Even at the moment of the British troops turning
their backs on the goal which they had not won, the fate of Gordon
himself was unknown, although there could be no doubt as to the main
fact that the protracted siege of Khartoum had terminated in its
capture by the cruel and savage foe, whom it, or rather Gordon, had so
long defied.I have referred to the official letter addressed to General Gordon, of
which Sir Charles Wilson was the bearer.That letter has never been
published, and it is perhaps well for its authors that it has not
been, for, however softened down its language was by Lord Wolseley's
intercession, it was an order to General Gordon to resign the command
at Khartoum, and to leave that place without a moment's delay.Had it
been delivered and obeyed (as it might have been, because Gordon's
strength would probably have collapsed at the sight of English
soldiers after his long incarceration), the next official step would
have been to censure him for having remained at Khartoum against
orders.Thus would the primary, and, indeed, sole object of the
Expedition have been attained without regard for the national honour,
and without the discovery of that policy, the want of which was the
only cause of the calamities associated with the Soudan.After the 14th of December there is no trustworthy, or at least,
complete evidence, as to what took place in Khartoum.A copy of one of
the defiant messages Gordon used to circulate for the special purpose
of letting them fall into the hands of the Mahdi was dated 29th of
that month, and ran to the effect, "Can hold Khartoum for years."There was also the final message to the Sovereigns of the Powers,
undated, and probably written, if at all, by Gordon, during the final
agony of the last few weeks, perhaps when Omdurman had fallen.It was
worded as follows:--

     "After salutations, I would at once, calling to mind what I have
     gone through, inform their Majesties, the Sovereigns, of the
     action of Great Britain and the Ottoman Empire, who appointed me
     as Governor-General of the Soudan for the purpose of appeasing
     the rebellion in that country."During the twelve months that I have been here, these two
     Powers, the one remarkable for her wealth, and the other for her
     military force, have remained unaffected by my situation--perhaps
     relying too much on the news sent by Hussein Pasha Khalifa, who
     surrendered of his own accord."Although I, personally, am too insignificant to be taken into
     account, the Powers were bound, nevertheless, to fulfil the
     engagement upon which my appointment was based, so as to shield
     the honour of the Governments."What I have gone through I cannot describe.The Almighty God
     will help me."Although this copy was not in Gordon's own writing, it was brought
down by one of his clerks, who escaped from Khartoum, and he declared
that the original had been sent in a cartridge case to Dongola.The
style is certainly the style of Gordon, and there was no one in the
Soudan who could imitate it.It seems safe, as Sir Henry Gordon did,
to accept it as the farewell message of his brother.Until fresh evidence comes to light, that of Slatin Pasha, then a
chained captive in the Mahdi's camp, is alone entitled to the
slightest credence, and it is extremely graphic.We can well believe
that up to the last moment Gordon continued to send out
messages--false, to deceive the Mahdi, and true to impress Lord
Wolseley.The note of 29th December was one of the former; the little
French note on half a cigarette paper, brought by Abdullah Khalifa to
Slatin to translate early in January, may have been one of the latter.It said:--"Can hold Khartoum at the outside till the end of January."Slatin then describes the fall of Omdurman on 15th January, with
Gordon's acquiescence, which entirely disposes of the assertion that
Ferratch, the gallant defender of that place during two months, was a
traitor, and of how, on its surrender, Gordon's fire from the western
wall of Khartoum prevented the Mahdists occupying it.He also comments
on the alarm caused by the first advance of the British force into the
Bayuda desert, and of the despatch of thousands of the Mahdi's best
warriors to oppose it.Those forces quitted the camp at Omdurman
between 10th and 15th January, and this step entirely disposes of the
theory that the Mahdi held Khartoum in the hollow of his hand, and
could at any moment take it.As late as the 15th of January, Gordon's
fire was so vigorous and successful that the Mahdi was unable to
retain possession of the fort which he had just captured.The story had best be continued in the words used by the witness.Six
days after the fall of Omdurman loud weeping and wailing filled the
Mahdi's camp.As the Mahdi forbade the display of sorrow and grief it
was clear that something most unusual had taken place.Then it came
out that the British troops had met and utterly defeated the tribes,
with a loss to the Mahdists of several thousands.Within the next two
or three days came news of the other defeat at Abou Kru, and the loud
lamentations of the women and children could not be checked.The Mahdi
and his chief emirs, the present Khalifa Abdullah prominent among
them, then held a consultation, and it was decided, sooner than lose
all the fruits of the hitherto unchecked triumph of their cause, to
risk an assault on Khartoum.At night on the 24th, and again on the
25th, the bulk of the rebel force was conveyed across the river to the
right bank of the White Nile; the Mahdi preached them a sermon,
promising them victory, and they were enjoined to receive his remarks
in silence, so that no noise was heard in the beleaguered city.By
this time their terror of the mines laid in front of the south wall
had become much diminished, because the mines had been placed too low
in the earth, and they also knew that Gordon and his diminished force
were in the last stages of exhaustion.Finally, the Mahdi or his
energetic lieutenant decided on one more arrangement, which was
probably the true cause of their success.The Mahdists had always
delivered their attack half an hour after sunrise; on this occasion
they decided to attack half an hour before dawn, when the whole scene
was covered in darkness.Slatin knew all these plans, and as he
listened anxiously in his place of confinement he was startled, when
just dropping off to sleep, by "the deafening discharge of thousands
of rifles and guns; this lasted for a few minutes, then only
occasional rifle shots were heard, and now all was quiet again.Could
this possibly be the great attack on Khartoum?A wild discharge of
firearms and cannon, and in a few minutes complete silence!"Some hours afterwards three black soldiers
approached, carrying in a bloody cloth the head of General Gordon,
which he identified.It is unnecessary to add the gruesome details
which Slatin picked up as to his manner of death from the gossip of
the camp.In this terrible tragedy ended that noble defence of
Khartoum, which, wherever considered or discussed, and for all time,
will excite the pity and admiration of the world.There is no need to dwell further on the terrible end of one of the
purest heroes our country has ever produced, whose loss was national,
but most deeply felt as an irreparable shock, and as a void that can
never be filled up by that small circle of men and women who might
call themselves his friends.Ten years elapsed after the eventful
morning when Slatin pronounced over his remains the appropriate
epitaph, "A brave soldier who fell at his post; happy is he to have
fallen; his sufferings are over!"before the exact manner of Gordon's
death was known, and some even clung to the chance that after all he
might have escaped to the Equator, and indeed it was not till long
after the expedition had returned that the remarkable details of his
single-handed defence of Khartoum became known.Had all these
particulars come out at the moment when the public learnt that
Khartoum had fallen, and that the expedition was to return without
accomplishing anything, it is possible that there would have been a
demand that no Minister could have resisted to avenge his fate; but it
was not till the publication of the journals that the exact character
of his magnificent defence and of the manner in which he was treated
by those who sent him came to be understood and appreciated by the
nation.The lapse of time has been sufficient to allow of a calm judgment
being passed on the whole transaction, and the considerations which I
have put forward with regard to it in the chronicle of events have
been dictated by the desire to treat all involved in the matter with
impartiality.If they approximate to the truth, they warrant the
following conclusions.The Government sent General Gordon to the
Soudan on an absolutely hopeless mission for any one or two men to
accomplish without that support in reinforcements on which General
Gordon thought he could count.General Gordon went to the Soudan, and
accepted that mission in the enthusiastic belief that he could arrest
the Mahdi's progress, and treating as a certainty which did not
require formal expression the personal opinion that the Government,
for the national honour, would comply with whatever demands he made
upon it.As a simple matter of fact, every one of those demands, some
against and some with Sir Evelyn Baring's authority, were rejected.No
incident could show more clearly the imperative need of definite
arrangements being made even with Governments; and in this case the
precipitance with which General Gordon was sent off did not admit of
him or the Government knowing exactly what was in the other's mind.Ostensibly of one mind, their views on the matter in hand were really
as far as the poles asunder.There then comes the second phase of the question--the alleged
abandonment of General Gordon by the Government which enlisted his
services in face of an extraordinary, and indeed unexampled danger and
difficulty.The evidence, while it proves conclusively and beyond
dispute that Mr Gladstone's Government never had a policy with regard
to the Soudan, and that even Gordon's heroism, inspiration, and
success failed to induce them to throw aside their lethargy and take
the course that, however much it may be postponed, is inevitable, does
not justify the charge that it abandoned Gordon to his fate.It
rejected the simplest and most sensible of his propositions, and by
rejecting them incurred an immense expenditure of British treasure and
an incalculable amount of bloodshed; but when the personal danger to
its envoy became acute, it did not abandon him, but sanctioned the
cost of the expedition pronounced necessary to effect his rescue.This
decision, too late as it was to assist in the formation of a new
administration for the Soudan, or to bring back the garrisons, was
taken in ample time to ensure the personal safety and rescue of
General Gordon.In the literal sense of the charge, history will
therefore acquit Mr Gladstone and his colleagues of the abandonment of
General Gordon personally.With regard to the third phase of the question--viz.the failure of
the attempt to rescue General Gordon, which was essentially a
military, and not a political question--the responsibility passes from
the Prime Minister to the military authorities who decided the scope
of the campaign, and the commander who carried it out.In this case,
the individual responsible was the same.Lord Wolseley not only had
his own way in the route to be followed by the expedition, and the
size and importance attached to it, but he was also entrusted with its
personal direction.There is consequently no question of the
sub-division of the responsibility for its failure, just as there
could have been none of the credit for its success.Lord Wolseley
decided that the route should be the long one by the Nile Valley, not
the short one from Souakim to Berber.Lord Wolseley decreed that there
should be no Indian troops, and that the force, instead of being an
ordinary one, should be a picked special corps from the _elite_ of the
British army; and finally Lord Wolseley insisted that there should be
no dash to the rescue of Gordon by a small part of his force, but a
slow, impressive, and overpoweringly scientific advance of the whole
body.The extremity of Gordon's distress necessitated a slight
modification of his plan, when, with qualified instructions, which
practically tied his hands, Sir Herbert Stewart made his first
appearance at Jakdul.It was then known to Lord Wolseley that Gordon was in extremities,
yet when a fighting force of 1100 English troops, of special physique
and spirit, was moved forward with sufficient transport to enable it
to reach the Nile and Gordon's steamers, the commander's instructions
were such as confined him to inaction, unless he disobeyed his orders,
which only Nelsons and Gordons can do with impunity.It is impossible
to explain this extraordinary timidity.Sir Herbert Stewart reached
Jakdul on 3rd January with a force small in numbers, but in every
other respect of remarkable efficiency, and with the camels
sufficiently fresh to have reached the Nile on 7th or 8th January had
it pressed on.The more urgent news that reached Lord Wolseley after
its departure would have justified the despatch of a messenger to urge
it to press on at all costs to Metemmah.In such a manner would a
Havelock or Outram have acted, yet the garrison of the Lucknow
Residency was in no more desperate case than Gordon at Khartoum.It does not need to be a professor of a military academy to declare
that, unless something is risked in war, and especially wars such as
England has had to wage against superior numbers in the East, there
will never be any successful rescues of distressed garrisons.Lord
Wolseley would risk nothing in the advance from Korti to Metemmah,
whence his advance guard did not reach the latter place till the 20th,
instead of the 7th of January.His lieutenant and representative, Sir
Charles Wilson, would not risk anything on the 21st January, whence
none of the steamers appeared at Khartoum until late on the 27th, when
all was over.Each of these statements cannot be impeached, and if so,
the conclusion seems inevitable that in the first and highest degree
Lord Wolseley was alone responsible for the failure to reach Khartoum
in time, and that in a very minor degree Sir Charles Wilson might be
considered blameworthy for not having sent off one of the steamers
with a small reinforcement to Khartoum on the 21st January, before
even he allowed Cassim el Mousse to take any part in the attack on
Metemmah.He could not have done this himself, but he would have had
no difficulty in finding a substitute.When, however, there were
others far more blameworthy, it seems almost unjust to a gallant
officer to say that by a desperate effort he might at the very last
moment have snatched the chestnuts out of the fire, and converted the
most ignominious failure in the military annals of this country into a
creditable success.*       *       *       *       *

The tragic end at Khartoum was not an inappropriate conclusion for the
career of Charles Gordon, whose life had been far removed from the
ordinary experiences of mankind.No man who ever lived was called upon
to deal with a greater number of difficult military and
administrative problems, and to find the solution for them with such
inadequate means and inferior troops and subordinates.In the Crimea
he showed as a very young man the spirit, discernment, energy, and
regard for detail which were his characteristics through life.Those
qualities enabled him to achieve in China military exploits which in
their way have never been surpassed.The marvellous skill, confidence,
and vigilance with which he supplied the shortcomings of his troops,
and provided for the wants of a large population at Khartoum for the
better part of a year, showed that, as a military leader, he was still
the same gifted captain who had crushed the Taeping rebellion twenty
years before.What he did for the Soudan and its people during six
years' residence, at a personal sacrifice that never can be
appreciated, has been told at length; but pages of rhetoric would not
give as perfect a picture as the spontaneous cry of the blacks: "If we
only had a governor like Gordon Pasha, then the country would indeed
be contented.""Such examples are fruitful in the future," said Mr Gladstone in the
House of Commons; and it is as a perfect model of all that was good,
brave, and true that Gordon will be enshrined in the memory of the
great English nation which he really died for, and whose honour was
dearer to him than his life.England may well feel proud of having
produced so noble and so unapproachable a hero.She has had, and she
will have again, soldiers as brave, as thoughtful, as prudent, and as
successful as Gordon.She has had, and she will have again, servants
of the same public spirit, with the same intense desire that not a
spot should sully the national honour.But although this breed is not
extinct, there will never be another Gordon.The circumstances that
produced him were exceptional; the opportunities that offered
themselves for the demonstration of his greatness can never fall to
the lot of another; and even if by some miraculous combination the man
and the occasions arose, the hero, unlike Gordon, would be spoilt by
his own success and public applause.But the qualities which made
Gordon superior not only to all his contemporaries, but to all the
temptations and weaknesses of success, are attainable; and the student
of his life will find that the guiding star he always kept before him
was the duty he owed his country.In that respect, above all others,
he has left future generations of his countrymen a great example._Abbas_, steamer, ii.144;
    loss of, 145-6.Abd-el-Kader, ii.Abdullah, the present Khalifa, ii.163;
    battle of, 164;
    loss at, _ibid._, 166.164;
    battle of, 165, 169.5, 32, 35, 70 _passim_.Alla-ed-Din, ii.142, 143, 145, 149, 157; ii.Baring, Sir Evelyn, _see_ Lord Cromer.Bashi-Bazouks, ii.4, 9, 10, 141, 142, 144.71, 72, 75 _et seq._;
    description of, 77-82.96, 139, 140, 143, 145, 159, 163.166;
    rescues Sir C. Wilson, 167.Blignieres, M. de, ii.54-59, 78, 81, 89, 90, 92-93.Burgoyne, Sir John, i.145;
    affairs at, 145-6; ii.Campbell, Mr J. D., ii.76;
    opinion at, 88-89.Chamberlaine, Sir N., ii.2, 21, 31, 107, 139.57, 82, 84, 88-89, 91-93, 96-103, 113.Chippendall, Lieut., i.50, 55-56, 71-76, 92-99, 113, 116, 118, 121.Clarke, Miss A. M., i.Coetlogon, Colonel de, ii._Courbash_, the, abolished in Soudan, ii.8-9, 14, 16, 138.21;
    Gordon's scene with, _ibid._;
    opposes Gordon, 118-122, 125, 128, 137;
    his suggestion, 139, 140, 147, 153.10-12, 14, 27, 104.9-11, 17, 30-31, 113.Devonshire, Duke of, first moves to render Gordon assistance, ii.156;
    his preparations for an expedition, ii.98, 139, 157, 159, 160, 161.Elphinstone, Sir Howard, ii.Empress-Regents, the, i.Enderby, Elizabeth, Gordon's mot 3-4.8;
    power of, 73.French soldiers, Gordon's opinion of, i.94, 122;
    Gladstone and his Government, ii.151;
    how they came to employ Gordon, ii.151-2;
    undeceived as to Gordon's views, ii.152-3;
    their indecision, ii.153;
    statement in House, ii.154;
    dismayed by Gordon's boldness, ii.155;
    their radical fault, ii.156;
    degree of responsibility, ii.170;
    acquittal of personal abandonment of Gordon, ii.Gordon, Charles George:
      birth, i.1;
      family history, 1-4;
      childhood, 4;
      enters Woolwich Academy, 5;
      early escapades, 5-6;
      put back six months and elects for Engineers, 6;
      his spirit, 7;
      his examinations, _ibid._;
      gets commission, _ibid._;
      his work at Pembroke, 8;
      his brothers, 9;
      his sisters, 10;
      his brother-in-law, Dr Moffitt, _ibid._;
      personal appearance of, 11-14;
      his height, 11;
      his voice, 12;
      ordered to Corfu, 14;
      changed to Crimea, _ibid._;
      passes Constantinople, 15;
      views on the Dardanelles' forts, _ibid._;
      reaches Balaclava, 16;
      opinion of French soldiers, 17, 18;
      his first night in the trenches, 18-19;
      his topographical knowledge, 19;
      his special aptitude for war, _ibid._;
      account of the capture of the Quarries, 21-22;
      of the first assault on Redan, 22-24;
      Kinglake's opinion of, 25;
      on the second assault on Redan, 26-28;
      praises the Russians, 28;
      joins Kimburn expedition, _ibid._;
      destroying Sebastopol, 29-31;
      his warlike instincts, 31;
      appointed to Bessarabian Commission, 32;
      his letters on the delimitation work, 33;
      ordered to Armenia, _ibid._;
      journey from Trebizonde, 34;
      describes Kars, 34-35;
      his other letters from Armenia, 35-39;
      ascends Ararat, 39-40;
      returns home, 41;
      again ordered to the Caucasus, 41, 42;
      some personal idiosyncrasies, 43, 44;
      gazetted captain, 45;
      appointment at Chatham, 45;
      sails for China, _ibid._;
      too late for fighting, _ibid._;
      describes sack of Summer Palace, 46;
      buys the Chinese throne, _ibid._;
      his work at Tientsin, 47;
      a trip to the Great Wall, 47-49;
      arrives at Shanghai, 49;
      distinguishes himself in the field, 50;
      his daring, 51;
      gets his coat spoiled, 52;
      raised to rank of major, _ibid._;
      surveys country round Shanghai, 52, 53;
      describes Taepings, 53;
      nominated for Chinese service, 54;
      reaches Sungkiang, 60;
      qualifications for the command, 78;
      describes his force, 79;
      inspects it, _ibid._;
      first action, 79, 80;
      impresses Chinese, 80;
      described by Li Hung Chang, _ibid._;
      made Tsungping, _ibid._;
      forbids plunder, 81;
      his flotilla, _ibid._;
      his strategy, _ibid._;
      captures Taitsan, 82;
      difficulty with his officers, 83;
      besieges Quinsan, _ibid._;
      reconnoitres it, 84;
      attacks and takes it, 85-87;
      removes to Quinsan, 87;
      deals with a mutiny, 88;
      incident with General Ching, 89;
      resigns and withdraws resignation, _ibid._;
      contends with greater difficulties, 90;
      undertakes siege of Soochow, 91;
      negotiates with Burgevine, 92, 93;
      relieves garrison, 94;
      great victory, _ibid._;
      describes the position round Soochow, 95;
      his hands tied by the Chinese, 96;
      his main plan of campaign, 97;
      his first repulse, _ibid._;
      captures the stockades, 98;
      his officers, 99;
      his share in negotiations with Taepings, _ibid._;
      difficulty about pay, 100;
      resigns command, _ibid._;
      guards Li Hung Chang's tent, _ibid._;
      enters Soochow, 101;
      scene with Ching, _ibid._;
      asks Dr Macartney to go to Lar Wang, _ibid._;
      questions interpreter, _ibid._;
      detained by Taepings, _ibid._;
      and then by Imperialists, 102;
      scene with Ching, _ibid._;
      identifies the bodies of the Wangs, _ibid._;
      what he would have done, _ibid._;
      the fresh evidence relating to the Wangs, 103 _et seq._;
      conversation with Ching, 103;
      and Macartney, _ibid._;
      relations with Macartney, 103, 104;
      offers him succession to command, 104, 105;
      letter to Li Hung Chang, 106;
      Li sends Macartney to Gordon, _ibid._;
      contents of Gordon's letter, 107;
      possesses the head of the Lar Wang, 107, 108;
      frenzied state of, 108;
      scene with Macartney at Quinsan, 108, 109;
      his threats, 109;
      his grave reflection on Macartney, 109, 110;
      writes to Macartney, 111;
      makes public retractation, 111;
      other expressions of regret, 112;
      refuses Chinese presents, _ibid._;
      suspension in active command, _ibid._;
      retakes the field, 113;
      "the destiny of China in his hands," _ibid._;
      attacks places west of Taiho Lake, 114-5;
      enrolls Taepings, 115;
      severely wounded, 116;
      second reverse, _ibid._;
      receives bad news, _ibid._;
      alters his plans, _ibid._;
      his force severely defeated, 117;
      retrieves misfortune, _ibid._;
      describes the rebellion, 118;
      made Lieut.-Colonel, _ibid._;
      his further successes, 119;
      another reverse, _ibid._;
      his final victory, 120;
      what he thought he had done, _ibid._;
      visits Nanking, _ibid._;
      drills Chinese troops, 121;
      appointed Ti-Tu and Yellow Jacket Order, 122;
      his mandarin dresses, 123;
      his relations with Li Hung Chang, _ibid._;
      the Gold Medal, _ibid._;
      his diary destroyed, 124;
      returns home, _ibid._;
      view of his achievements, 125-6;
      a quiet six months, 128;
      his excessive modesty, _ibid._;
      pride in his profession, 129;
      appointment at Gravesend, _ibid._;
      his view of the Thames Forts, 130;
      his work there, _ibid._;
      his mode of living, 131;
      supposed _angina pectoris_, _ibid._;
      wish to join Abyssinian Expedition, 132;
      described as a modern Jesus Christ, _ibid._;
      his mission work, 132-3;
      his boys, 133;
      sends his medal to Lancashire fund, _ibid._;
      his love for boys, 134;
      his kings, _ibid._;
      some incidents, _ibid._;
      his pensioners, 135;
      his coat stolen, _ibid._;
      his walks, 136;
      the Snake flags, _ibid._;
      leaves Gravesend, _ibid._;
      at Galatz, 137;
      no place like England, _ibid._;
      goes to Crimea, 138;
      attends Napoleon's funeral, _ibid._;
      casual meeting with Nubar, and its important consequences, 139-40;
      "Gold and Silver Idols," 140;
      appointed Governor of the Equatorial Province, 145;
      reasons for it, _ibid._;
      leaves Cairo, 146;
      describes the "sudd," _ibid._;
      his steamers, 147;
      his facetiousness, _ibid._;
      reaches Gondokoro, _ibid._;
      his firman, _ibid._;
      his staff, 148;
      his energy, _ibid._;
      establishes line of forts, _ibid._;
      collapse of his staff, 149;
      his Botany Bay, _ibid._;
      his policy and justice, 150;
      his poor troops, _ibid._;
      organises a black corps, 151;
      his sound finance, _ibid._;
      deals with slave trade, 152;
      incidents with slaves, _ibid._;
      makes friends everywhere, 153;
      his goodness a tradition, 153-4;
      his character misrepresented, 154;
      his line of forts, 155;
      the ulterior objects of his task, _ibid._;
      the control of the Nile, 156;
      shrinks from notoriety, _ibid._;
      describes the Lakes, 157;
      the question with Uganda, 157 _et seq._;
      proceeds against Kaba Rega, 158-60;
      his extraordinary energy, 161;
      does his own work, 161;
      incident of his courage, 161-2;
      views of Khedive, 163;
      returns to Cairo, 163;
      and home, _ibid._
      Decision about Egyptian employment, ii.1;
      receives letter from Khedive, 2;
      consults Duke of Cambridge, _ibid._;
      returns to Cairo, _ibid._;
      appointed Governor-General of the Soudan, 2-3;
      appointed Muchir, or Marshal, etc., 3;
      sums up his work, 4;
      his first treatment of Abyssinian Question, 5-6;
      his entry into Khartoum, 6;
      public address, 7;
      first acts of Administration, _ibid._;
      proposes Slavery Regulations, 7;
      receives contradictory orders on subject, 8;
      his decision about them, 8-9;
      disbands the Bashi-Bazouks, 9;
      goes to Darfour, _ibid._;
      relieves garrisons, 10-11;
      enters Fascher, 11;
      recalled by alarming news in his rear, _ibid._;
      his camel described, _ibid._;
      reaches Dara without troops, 12;
      his interview with Suleiman, _ibid._;
      Slatin's account of scene, 12-13;
      his views on the Slave Question, 13;
      follows Suleiman to Shaka, 14;
      indignant letter of, 15;
      his decision about capital punishment, _ibid._;
      his views thereupon, 16;
      some characteristic incidents, _ibid._;
      what the people thought of him, _ibid._;
      "Send us another Governor like Gordon," _ibid._;
      his regular payments, 17;
      his thoughtfulness, _ibid._;
      summoned to Cairo, _ibid._;
      appointed President of Financial Inquiry, 18;
      his views of money, _ibid._;
      acts with Lesseps, 19;
      meets with foreign opposition, 20;
      scene with Lesseps, 21;
      scene with Major Evelyn Baring, _ibid._;
      Gordon's financial proposal, 22;
      last scenes with Khedive, 23;
      Gordon's bold offer, _ibid._;
      financial episode cost Gordon L800, 24;
      his way of living, _ibid._;
      leaves Cairo and visits Harrar, 25;
      his finance in the Soudan, 25-6;
      deals with Suleiman, 26 _et seq._;
      takes the field in person, 30;
      clears out Shaka, 31;
      again summoned to Cairo, _ibid._;
      proclaims Tewfik, _ibid._;
      returns to Cairo, 32;
      entrusted with mission to Abyssinia, _ibid._;
      receives letter from King John, 33;
      called "Sultan of the Soudan," _ibid._;
      enters Abyssinia, 34;
      goes to Debra Tabor, _ibid._;
      interview with King John, _ibid._;
      prevented returning to Soudan, 35;
      his opinion of Abyssinia, _ibid._;
      Khedive's neglect of, 36;
      called "mad," _ibid._;
      his work in the Soudan, 36-7;
      goes to Switzerland, 38;
      his opinion of wives, 38;
      first meeting with King of the Belgians, 39;
      offered Cape command, 40;
      his memorandum on Eastern Question, 40-2;
      accepts Private Secretaryship to Lord Ripon, 42;
      regrets it, 43;
      interview with Prince of Wales, _ibid._;
      his letters about it, 44;
      views on Indian topics, _ibid._;
      sudden resignation, _ibid._;
      the Yakoob Khan incident, 45-8;
      invited to China, 49;
      full history of that invitation, 49-50;
      letter from Li Hung Chang, 49;
      his telegrams to War Office, 50-1;
      leaves for China, 51;
      announces his intentions, 52;
      what he discovered on arrival in China, 53;
      ignores British Minister, _ibid._;
      stays with Li Hung Chang, 55;
      his reply to German Minister, 56;
      his letter on Li, 57;
      his advice to China, 58-61;
      baffles intrigues and secures peace, 59;
      further passages with War Office, 60;
      on the Franco-Chinese war, 61, 62;
      on the Opium Question, 63-4;
      arrives at Aden, 65;
      his Central African letters, _ibid._;
      visits Ireland, 65-6;
      letter on Irish Question in _Times_, 66-7;
      letter on Candahar, 68-70;
      opinion of Abyssinians, 70;
      his article on irregular warfare, 70-1;
      offers Cape Government his services for Basutoland, 71;
      takes Sir Howard Elphinstone's place in the Mauritius, 72;
      his work there, 72-3;
      views of England's power, 73;
      views on coaling stations, _ibid._;
      visits Seychelles, 74;
      views on Malta and Mediterranean, 74-5;
      attains rank of Major-General, 75;
      summoned to the Cape, _ibid._;
      leaves in a sailing ship, 76;
      financial arrangement with Cape Government, _ibid._;
      his pecuniary loss by Cape employment, _ibid._;
      his memorandum on Basutoland, 77-9;
      accepts temporarily post of Commandant-General, 80;
      drafts a Basuto Convention, 80-1;
      requested by Mr Sauer to go to Basutoland, 82;
      relations with Masupha, _ibid._;
      visits Masupha, 83;
      betrayed by Sauer, _ibid._;
      peril of, _ibid._;
      his account of the affair, 84-5;
      memorandum on the Native Question, 85-7;
      his project of military reform, 88;
      his resignation of Cape command, _ibid._;
      corresponds with King of the Belgians, 89;
      goes to the Holy Land, _ibid._;
      his view of Russian Convent at Jerusalem, 90;
      advocates Palestine Canal, 90-1;
      summoned to Belgium, 91;
      telegraphs for leave, 92;
      the mistake in the telegram, _ibid._;
      decides to retire, _ibid._;
      King Leopold's arrangement, _ibid._;
      his plans on the Congo, 93-4;
      public opinion aroused by his Soudan policy, 93-5;
      visit to War Office, 94;
      makes his will, _ibid._;
      goes to Brussels, _ibid._;
      Soudan not the Congo, 95;
      leaves Charing Cross, 95;
      final letters to his sister, 95-6;
      interview with ministers, 96;
      loses clothes and orders, _ibid._;
      his predictions about the Soudan, 97-8;
      the task imposed on him, 106;
      why he accepted it, 106-7;
      memorandum on Egyptian affairs, 107-9;
      opinions on Hicks's Expedition, 109;
      on English policy, 110;
      on the Mahdi, _ibid._;
      his interview with Mr Stead of _Pall Mall Gazette_, 111-5;
      his eagerness to go to the Soudan, 115;
      suggestions by the Press of his fitness for the post, 116-7;
      "generally considered to be mad," 117;
      Sir Charles Dilke puts his name forward, _ibid._;
      Lord Granville's despatch, _ibid._;
      Lord Cromer opposes his appointment, 118, _et seq._;
      consequences of that opposition, and the delay it caused, 118-21;
      the arrangement with King Leopold, 121;
      went to Soudan at request of Government, 122;
      his departure, _ibid._;
      his instructions, 123-4;
      doubts about them, 124;
      his views about Zebehr, 124 _et seq._;
      suggests his being sent to Cyprus, 125;
      change in his route, _ibid._;
      goes to Cairo, _ibid._;
      changed view towards Zebehr, 126;
      his memorandum on their relations, 126-8;
      wishes to take him, 128;
      a "mystic feeling," _ibid._;
      interview with Zebehr, _ibid._;
      final demands for Zebehr, 129-30;
      leaves Cairo, 133;
      the task before him, 134-5;
      hastens to Khartoum, 136;
      reception by inhabitants, _ibid._;
      his first steps of defence, _ibid._;
      his conclusion that "Mahdi must be smashed up," 137;
      his demands, 138;
      on our "dog in the manger" policy, 139;
      "caught in Khartoum," _ibid._;
      appeal to philanthropists, _ibid._;
      "you will eventually be forced to smash up the Mahdi," 140;
      his lost diary, 141;
      his first fight, _ibid._;
      bad conduct of his troops, 141-2;
      lays down three lines of mines, 142;
      his steamers, _ibid._;
      their value, _ibid._;
      force at his disposal, _ibid._;
      loses a steamer, 143;
      sends down 2600 refugees, _ibid._;
      his care for them, 143-4;
      Soudan Question _must_ be
      settled by November, 144;
      sends down _Abbas_, 145;
      full history of that incident, 144-6;
      left alone at Khartoum, 146;
      sends away his steamers to help the Expedition, 146-7;
      hampered by indecision of Government, 147;
      his telegrams never published, _ibid._;
      position at Khartoum, _ibid._;
      his point of observation, 148;
      cut off from Omdurman, _ibid._;
      anxiety for his steamers, 149;
      "To-day I expected one of the Expedition here," _ibid._;
      the confidence felt in Gordon, _ibid._;
      his defiance of the Mahdi, 150;
      his position, 150-1;
      his last Journal, 151;
      views on Soudan Question, 152-3;
      his relations with the Government, 152-6;
      effect of silence from Khartoum, 156;
      his view of the Relief Expedition, 159;
      his shrewdness, _ibid._;
      his last messages, 160;
      situation desperate, _ibid._;
      "the town may fall in ten days," 165;
      "quite happy, and, like Lawrence, have tried to do my duty,"
        _ibid._;
      "spilt milk," _ibid._;
      his last message of all, 168;
      death of, 169;
      details supplied by Slatin, 169-70;
      a great national loss, 173;
      his example, 173.4-6, 8-10, 60, 102, 134; ii.19, 43, 91,
     92, 95, 132.130;
    correspondence with Zebehr, 130-2, 143.Gordon, Mrs, mother of Charles Gordon, i.127, 128;
    death of, 138.Gordon, William Henry, Lieut.-General, i.Gordon, Sir William, of Park, i.12, 13, 22, 24, 25; ii.125, 128, 129, 153,
    156, 165.Gubat, _see_ Abou Kru, ii.Hake, Mr Egmont, revives Gordon's retracted libel on Sir Halliday
    Macartney, 109.Hukumdaria, the, ii.62,
    _see_ Tien Wang._Husseinyeh_, ii._Hyson_, steamer, i.81, 83-87, 90-92, 94, 95.106, 140;
    his alarm, 143-4;
    why he appointed Gordon, 145-7, ii.1-3, 17, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23,
      24, 31;
    Gordon's opinion of, 114, and _passim_.Ismail Yakoob Pasha, ii._Ismailia_, steamer, ii.161-3;
    splendid force at, 163, 172.5-6, 32, 33-4.Kabbabish tribe, the, ii._Kajow_, the, i.Khartoum, advantageous position of, i.6, 101-3, 105;
    panic at, ii.119;
    position at, ii.134-5;
    scene at, ii.136;
    distance from Cairo, ii.136, 140;
    position of, 147-8;
    the only relieving force to, ii.150;
    anxiety in England about, ii.9, 20, 22, 24;
    opinion of Gordon, i.Kitchener, Sir H., Gordon's opinion of, ii.158;
    his suggestion, _ibid._
  Kiukiang, i.98-9-100-2, 105, 108.Leopold, King of the Belgians, ii.39, 89, 91, 92;
    agrees to compensate Gordon, _ibid._; 93-95, 121.Lesseps, M. de, ii.57, 58;
    admires Gordon, 80;
    reconnoitres Quinsan, 84;
    opposes Burgevine, 89;
    relations with Macartney, 89, 90;
    energy of, 95;
    statement about Gordon, 99;
    withholds pay, 100;
    protected by Gordon, _ibid._;
    seeks shelter in Macartney's camp, 106;
    exonerates Gordon, 107;
    sends Macartney as envoy to Quinsan, 107;
    gives a breakfast to Gordon and Macartney, 111;
    summons Gordon to return, 116;
    solicitude for Gordon, _ibid._;
    supports Gordon, 119;
    lays wreath on Gordon's monument, 123; ii.50, 53-59, 61, 63.Lilley, Mr W. E., i.Lucknow Residency, resemblance between its siege and Khartoum,
    ii.Macartney, Sir Halliday: sent to Gordon on a mission, i.88-9;
    his work described by Gordon, 89-90;
    with Gordon on the wall of Soochow, 101;
    scene there, 103;
    requested by Gordon to go to Lar Wang's palace, _ibid._;
    his earlier relation with Gordon, 104;
    offered and accepts succession to command of army, 104-5;
    what he learnt at the palace, 105;
    tries to find Gordon, 106;
    and Li Hung Chang, _ibid._;
    discovers latter in his own camp, _ibid._;
    declines to translate Gordon's letter, _ibid._;
    sent to Quinsan by Li, 107;
    Gordon shows him the head of Lar Wang, _ibid._;
    scene at the breakfast-table, 108;
    his advice, 108-9;
    hastens back to Soochow, 109;
    Gordon's libel on, 110;
    explains facts to Sir Harry Parkes and Sir F. Bruce, 110-11;
    receives letter from Gordon, 111;
    Gordon's public apology and retractation, 111-12;
    a full _amende_, 112;
    happy termination of incident, 113; ii.Mahdi, the (or Mahomed Ahmed), ii.98;
    his first appearance, _ibid._;
    defies Egyptian Government, 99;
    meaning of name, _ibid._;
    his first victory, 100;
    defeats Rashed, _ibid._;
    further victories, 101;
    captures El Obeid, 102;
    annihilates Hicks's expedition, 104;
    height of his power, 105;
    basis of his influence, 105-6;
    Zebehr on, 130, 135;
    salaams Gordon, 136;
    basis of his power, 137;
    learns of loss of _Abbas_, 146;
    arrives before Khartoum, 149;
    knowledge as to state of Khartoum, 150;
    exaggerated fear of, 161;
    aroused by Stewart's advance, 163;
    sends his best warriors to Bayuda, 164;
    captures Khartoum, 167;
    mode of that capture, 169.77, 80, 82;
    character of, 83, 85-89.Mehemet Ali, conquers Soudan, i.17, 161-166;
    delay at, 166-7.75, 90, 93, 98-100.49, 58, 68, 69, 72, 76, 120;
    capture of, 121.Napier of Magdala, Lord, i.142;
    "not a bad Nile," 157._Nineteenth Century, The_, i._North China Herald_, the, i.O'Donovan, Edmond, ii.102, 103, 136;
    fort of, 147-8;
    isolated, 149;
    capture of, 149, 150, 163, 164;
    scene at, 169;
    date of fall, 166.103, 105, 136, 139, 156._Pall Mall Gazette_, the, ii.134, 135, 137, 144;
    leaves on _Abbas_, _ibid._;
    death of, 145-6.78, 81, 82-88, 90, 107, 108.21-2;
    attack on, 22-4;
    second attack, 26-7.Revenue, the, of Soudan, ii.Ripon, Marquis of, ii.42-44, 47-49, 68.Rivers Wilson, Mr, now Sir Charles, ii.Russian Army, Gordon's opinion of, i.81-82, 95-97, 113, 116._Santals_, the, ii.82;
    betrays Gordon, 83;
    his treachery, _ibid._;
    his misrepresentation, 84-85.Schweinfurth, Dr, i.49-50-55;
    Triad rising at, i.72;
    loss of Chinese city, i.17, 143, 145-147, 158.Simmons, Sir Lintorn, i.12-13, 16, 104-105, 166, 168-169;
    his epitaph on Gordon, ii.148-149, 152-153;
    proposed regulations, ii.7;
    Convention, ii.74-75, 78, 84-87, 91, 94-98, 100-102.Soudan, meaning of name, i.141;
    easily conquered, i.142;
    slave trade in, _ibid._;
    situation in, ii.97;
    the, Gordon's views on, ii.111, _et seq._ _passim_;
    people of, ii.127;
    the home at, ii.Stanley, Mr H. M., ii.19, 50-52, 54, 56, 58-60, 78, 132.Stead, Mr W. T., ii.142;
    bullet marks on, ii.122, 125, 137, 141, 144;
    leaves on _Abbas_, _ibid._;
    fate of, ii.144-146;
    should not have left Gordon, ii.162;
    trammelled by his instructions, _ibid._;
    returns to Jakdul, 163;
    wounded, 164;
    death of, 165;
    his intention, 166.Suleiman, Zebehr's son, ii.10-14, 25-29;
    execution of, ii.Sultan, proposal to surrender Soudan to the, ii.54-55, 60, 78-80, 83, 88, 90, 121.50, 53-54, 59 (_see_ Chapter IV.);
    capture Nanking, i.68;
    march on Peking, i.69-70;
    their military strength, i.75;
    and the missionaries, i.Tewfik Pasha (Khedive), ii.31-32, 36, 106-109, 118, 125, 139.49, 62, 65;
    occupies Nanking, i.68;
    retires into his palace, i.71-72;
    death of, i.40, 66, 68, 92, 94, 110, 116-117, 134.67-68, 72-73, 120.50-52, 54-55, 57.Vivian, Mr (afterwards Lord), ii.138-139, 154, 159, 161.Wilson, Sir Charles, succeeds to the command, ii.165;
    his book "Korti to Khartoum," _ibid._;
    not to be made a scapegoat, 166;
    the letter in his charge, _ibid._;
    sails for Khartoum, 167;
    under hot fire, _ibid._;
    wrecked, _ibid._;
    rescued by Lord C. Beresford, _ibid._;
    the letter in his charge, _ibid._;
    comparatively small measure of his responsibility, 172.Wittgenstein, Prince F. von, i.95, 96, 121, 125, 138;
    receives message from Gordon, 151;
    his letter of 24th July, 157;
    largely responsible for Khartoum mission, _ibid._;
    his address to the soldiers, 158;
    his view of the expedition, 159;
    receives full news of Gordon's desperate situation, 160;
    his grand and deliberate plan, 161;
    perfect but for--Time, _ibid._;
    will risk nothing, 162;
    his instructions to Sir Herbert Stewart, _ibid._;
    sole responsibility of, 171;
    ties Stewart's hands, _ibid._;
    the real person responsible for death of Gordon and failure of
      expedition, 172.10, 13, 32, 98, 101, 105, 110, 111,
    118, 119, 124-26;
    interview with Gordon, 128-29;
    doubts as to his real attitude, 129-30;
    letters to Miss Gordon, 130-32;
    to Sir Henry Gordon, 132;
    his power, 133.*       *       *       *       *


[Transcriber's Notes:

The transcriber made the following changes to the text to
correct obvious errors:

  1. p.110, Madhi's --> Mahdi's
  2. p.137, opinons -->opinions
  3. p.142, trooops --> troops
  4. p.144, beween --> between
  5. p.149, Thoughout --> Throughout
  6. p.153, Madhi --> Mahdi
  7. p.166, Madhi --> Mahdi
  8. p.178, returns to Cairo, 164; --> returns to Cairo, 163;
 10. p.180, Hicks, Colonel, 102 --> Hicks, Colonel, ii.The
movements also necessitate a constant exercise of the ankles and insteps
which is very strengthening to those parts, and cannot fail to raise and
support the arch of the foot.Taken from any standpoint, the Boston is one of the most worthy forms of
the social dance ever devised, and the distortions of position which
are now occasionally practiced must soon give way to the genuinely
refining influence of the action.[Illustration]

Of the various forms of the Boston, there is little to be said beyond
the description of the manner of their execution, which will be treated
in the following pages.It is hoped that this book will help toward a more complete
understanding of the beauties and attractions of the Boston, and further
the proper appreciation of it._All descriptions of dances given in this book relate to the lady's
part.The gentleman's is exactly the same, but in the countermotion._


THE LONG BOSTON

The ordinary form of the Boston as described in the foregoing pages is
commonly known as the "Long" Boston to distinguish it from other forms
and variations.It is danced in 3/4 time, either Waltz or Mazurka, and
at any tempo desired.As this is the fundamental form of the Boston, it
should be thoroughly acquired before undertaking any other.[Illustration]


THE SHORT BOSTON

The "Short" Boston differs from the "Long" Boston only in measure.It is
danced in either 2/4 or 6/8 time, and the first movement (in 2/4 time)
occupies the duration of a quarter-note.The second and third movements
each occupy the duration of an eighth-note.Thus, there exists between
the "Long" and the "Short" Boston the same difference as between the
Waltz and the Galop.In the more rapid forms of the "Short" Boston, the
rising and sinking upon the second and third movements naturally take
the form of a hop or skip.The dance is more enjoyable and less
fatiguing in moderate tempo.THE OPEN BOSTON

The "Open" Boston contains two parts of eight measures each.The first
part is danced in the positions shown in the illustrations facing pages
8 and 10, and the second part consists of 8 measures of the "Long"
Boston.In the first part, the dancers execute three Boston steps forward,
without turning, and one Boston step turning (towards the partner) to
face directly backward (1/2 turn).This is followed by three Boston steps backward (without turning) in the
position shown in the illustration facing page 10, followed by one
Boston step turning (toward the partner) and finishing in regular Waltz
Position for the execution of the second part.[Illustration]


THE BOSTON DIP

The "Dip" is a combination dance in 3/4 or 3/8 time, and contains 4
measures of the "Long" Boston, preceded by 4 measures, as follows:

Standing upon the left foot, step directly to the side, and transfer the
weight to the right foot (count 1); swing the left leg to the right in
front of the right, at the same time raising the right heel (count 2);
lower the right heel (count 3); return the left foot to its original
place where it receives the weight (count 4); swing the right leg across
in front of the left, raising the left heel (count 5); and lower the
left heel (count 6).Swing the right foot to the right, and put it down directly at the side
of the left (count 1); hop on the right foot and swing the left across
in front (count 2); fall back upon the right foot (count 3); put down
the left foot, crossing in front of the right, and transfer weight to it
(count 4); with right foot step a whole step to the right (count 5); and
finish by bringing the left foot against the right, where it receives
the weight (count 6).In executing the hop upon counts 2 and 3 of the third measure, the
movement must be so far delayed that the falling back will exactly
coincide with the third count of the music.[Illustration]




THE TURKEY TROT

_Preparation:--Side Position of the Waltz._


During the first four measures take four Boston steps without turning
(lady forward, gentleman backward), and bending the supporting knee,
stretch the free foot backward, (lady's left, gentleman's right) as
shown in the illustration opposite.Execute four drawing steps to the side (lady's right, gentleman's left)
swaying the shoulders and body in the direction of the drawn foot, and
pointing with the free foot upon the fourth, as shown in figure.Eight whole turns, Short Boston or Two-Step.*       *       *       *       *

  A splendid specimen for this dance will be found in "The Gobbler" by
  J. Monroe.THE AEROPLANE GLIDE


The "Aeroplane Glide" is very similar to the Boston Dip.It is supposed
to represent the start of the flight of an aeroplane, and derives its
name from that fact.The sole difference between the "Dip" and "Aeroplane" consists in the
six running steps which make up the first two measures.Of these running
steps, which are executed sidewise and with alternate crossings, before
and behind, only the fourth, at the beginning of the second measure
requires special description.Upon this step, the supporting knee is
noticeably bended to coincide with the accent of the music.The rest of the dance is identical with the "Dip".[Illustration]




THE TANGO


The Tango is a Spanish American dance which contains much of the
peculiar charm of the other Spanish dances, and its execution depends
largely upon the ability of the dancers so to grasp the rhythm of the
music as to interpret it by their movements.The steps are all simple,
and the dancers are permitted to vary or improvise the figures at will.Of these figures the two which follow are most common, and lend
themselves most readily to verbal description.1

The partners face one another as in Waltz Position.The gentleman takes
the lady's right hand in his left, and, stretching the arms to the full
extent, holding them at the shoulder height, he places her right hand
upon his left shoulder, and holds it there, as in the illustration
opposite page 30.In starting, the gentleman throws his right shoulder slightly back and
steps directly backward with his left foot, while the lady follows
forward with her right.In this manner both continue two steps, crossing
one foot over the other and then execute a half-turn in the same
direction.This is followed by four measures of the Two-Step and the
whole is repeated at will.[Illustration]


TANGO No.2

This variant starts from the same position as Tango No.The gentleman
takes two steps backward with the lady following forward, and then two
steps to the side (the lady's right and the gentleman's left) and two
steps in the opposite direction to the original position.These steps to the side should be marked by the swaying of the bodies as
the feet are drawn together on the second count of the measure, and the
whole is followed by 8 measures of the Two-Step.IDEAL MUSIC FOR THE "BOSTON"


PIANO SOLO

(_Also to be had for Full or Small Orchestra_)

LOVE'S AWAKENING           _J.Danglas_       .60
ON THE WINGS OF DREAM      _J.Danglas_       .60
FRISSON (Thrill!)Sinibaldi_     .50
LOVE'S TRIUMPH             _A.Daniele_       .60
DOUCEMENT                  _G.Robert_        .60
VIENNOISE                  _A.Duval_         .60

These selected numbers have attained success, not alone for their
attractions of melody and rich harmony, but for their rhythmical
flexibility and perfect adaptedness to the "Boston."FOR THE TURKEY TROT

Especially recommended

THE GOBBLER                _J.Monroe_        .50


Any of the foregoing compositions will be supplied on receipt of
one-half the list price.PUBLISHED BY

THE BOSTON MUSIC COMPANY 26 & 28 WEST ST., BOSTON, MASS.TRANSCRIBER'S NOTES:


  Text in italics is surrounded with underscores: _italics_.As we neared the station the whistles became more and more
distinct, and a scout reported the trains rapidly unloading, and that the
advance of the rebel army was passing through Appomattox Court House.Although Custer's orders were to make a junction with Merritt before
coming in contact with the enemy, here was a chance to strike a decisive
blow, which, if successful, would add to his renown and glory, and if not,
Merritt would soon be up to help him out of the scrape.Our excitement was
intense, but subdued.All saw the vital importance of heading off the
enemy.Another whistle, nearer and clearer, and another scout decided the
question.I was ordered to move rapidly to Appomattox Station, seize the
trains there, and, if possible, get possession of the Lynchburg pike.General Custer rode up alongside of me and, laying his hand on my
shoulder, said, "Go in, old fellow, don't let anything stop you; now is
the chance for your stars.Whoop 'em up; I'll be after you."The regiment
left the column at a slow trot, which became faster and faster until we
caught sight of the cars, which were preparing to move away, when, with a
cheer, we charged down on the station, capturing in an instant the three
trains of cars, with the force guarding them.I called for engineers and
firemen to take charge of the trains, when at least a dozen of my men
around me offered their services.I chose the number required, and ordered
the trains to be run to the rear, where I afterwards learned they were
claimed as captures by General Ord's corps.The cars were loaded with
commissary stores, a portion of which had been unloaded, on which the
rebel advance were regaling themselves when we pounced so unexpectedly
down on them.While the regiment was rallying after the charge, the enemy opened on it a
fierce fire from all kinds of guns--field and siege--which, however, did
but little damage, as the regiment was screened from the enemy's sight by
a dense woods.I at once sent notification to General Custer and Colonel
Pennington of my success, moved forward--my advance busily
skirmishing--and followed with the regiment in line of battle, mounted.The advance was soon checked by the enemy formed behind hastily
constructed intrenchments in a dense wood of the second growth of pine.Flushed with success and eager to gain the Lynchburg pike, along which
immense wagon and siege trains were rapidly moving, the regiment was
ordered to charge.Three times did it try to break through the enemy's
lines, but failed.Colonel Pennington arrived on the field with the rest
of the brigade, when, altogether, a rush was made, but it failed.Then
Custer, with the whole division, tried it, but he, too, failed.Charge and
charge again, was now the order, but it was done in driblets, without
organization and in great disorder.General Custer was here, there, and
everywhere, urging the men forward with cheers and oaths.The great prize
was so nearly in his grasp that it seemed a pity to lose it; but the rebel
infantry held on hard and fast, while his artillery belched out death and
destruction on every side of us.Merritt and night were fast coming on, so
as soon as a force, however small, was organized, it was hurled forward,
only to recoil in confusion and loss.Confident that this mode of fighting
would not bring us success, and fearful lest the enemy should assume the
offensive, which, in our disorganized state, must result in disaster, I
went to General Custer soon after dark, and said to him that if he would
let me get my regiment together, I could break through the rebel line.He
excitedly replied, "Never mind your regiment; take anything and everything
you can find, horse-holders and all, and break through: we must get hold
of the pike to-night."Acting on this order, a force was soon organized by
me, composed chiefly of the Second New York, but in part of other
regiments, undistinguishable in the darkness.With this I made a charge
down a narrow lane, which led to an open field where the rebel artillery
was posted.As the charging column debouched from the woods, six bright
lights suddenly flashed directly before us.A toronado of canister-shot
swept over our heads, and the next instant we were in the battery.The
line was broken, and the enemy routed.Custer, with the whole division,
now pressed through the gap pell-mell, in hot pursuit, halting for neither
prisoners nor guns, until the road to Lynchburg, crowded with wagons and
artillery, was in our possession.We then turned short to the right and
headed for the Appomattox Court House; but just before reaching it we
discovered the thousands of camp fires of the rebel army, and the pursuit
was checked.The enemy had gone into camp, in fancied security that his
route to Lynchburg was still open before him; and he little dreamed that
our cavalry had planted itself directly across his path, until some of our
men dashed into Appomattox Court House, where, unfortunately, Lieutenant
Colonel Root, of the Fifteenth New York Cavalry, was instantly killed by a
picket guard.After we had seized the road, we were joined by other
divisions of the cavalry corps which came to our assistance, but too late
to take part in the fight.Owing to the night attack, our regiments were so mixed up that it took
hours to reorganize them.When this was effected, we marched near to the
railroad station and bivouacked.We threw ourselves on the ground
to rest, but not to sleep.We knew that the infantry was hastening to our
assistance, but unless they joined us before sunrise, our cavalry line
would be brushed away, and the rebels would escape after all our hard work
to head them off from Lynchburg.About daybreak I was aroused by loud
hurrahs, and was told that Ord's corps was coming up rapidly, and forming
in rear of our cavalry.Soon after we were in the saddle and moving
towards the Appomattox Court House road, where the firing was growing
lively; but suddenly our direction was changed, and the whole cavalry
corps rode at a gallop to the right of our line, passing between the
position of the rebels and the rapidly forming masses of our infantry, who
greeted us with cheers and shouts of joy as we galloped along their front.At several places we had to "run the gauntlet" of fire from the enemy's
guns posted around the Court House, but this only added to the interest
of the scene, for we felt it to be the last expiring effort of the enemy
to put on a bold front; we knew that we had them this time, and that at
last Lee's proud army of Northern Virginia was at our mercy.While moving
at almost a charging gait we were suddenly brought to a halt by reports of
a surrender.General Sheridan and his staff rode up, and left in hot haste
for the Court House; but just after leaving us, they were fired into by a
party of rebel cavalry, who also opened fire on us, to which we promptly
replied, and soon put them to flight.Our lines were then formed for a
charge on the rebel infantry; but while the bugles were sounding the
charge, an officer with a white flag rode out from the rebel lines, and we
halted.It was fortunate for us that we halted when we did, for had we
charged we would have been swept into eternity, as directly in our front
was a creek, on the other side of which was a rebel brigade, entrenched,
with batteries in position, the guns double shotted with canister.To have
charged this formidable array, mounted, would have resulted in almost
total annihilation.After we had halted, we were informed that
preliminaries were being arranged for the surrender of Lee's whole army.At this news, cheer after cheer rent the air for a few moments, when soon
all became as quiet as if nothing unusual had occurred.I rode forward
between the lines with Custer and Pennington, and met several old friends
among the rebels, who came out to see us.Among them, I remember Lee
(Gimlet), of Virginia, and Cowan, of North Carolina.I saw General Cadmus
Wilcox just across the creek, walking to and fro with his eyes on the
ground, just as was his wont when he was instructor at West Point.I
called to him, but he paid no attention, except to glance at me in a
hostile manner.While we were thus discussing the probable terms of the surrender, General
Lee, in full uniform, accompanied by one of his staff, and General
Babcock, of General Grant's staff, rode from the Court House towards our
lines.As he passed us, we all raised our caps in salute, which he
gracefully returned.Later in the day loud and continuous cheering was heard among the rebels,
which was taken up and echoed by our lines until the air was rent with
cheers, when all as suddenly subsided.The surrender was a fixed fact, and
the rebels were overjoyed at the very liberal terms they had received.Our
men, without arms, approached the rebel lines, and divided their rations
with the half-starved foe, and engaged in quiet, friendly conversation.There was no bluster nor braggadocia,--nothing but quiet contentment that
the rebellion was crushed, and the war ended.In fact, many of the rebels
seemed as much pleased as we were.Now and then one would meet a surly,
dissatisfied look; but, as a general thing, we met smiling faces and hands
eager and ready to grasp our own, especially if they contained anything to
eat or drink.After the surrender, I rode over to the Court House with
Colonel Pennington and others and visited the house in which the surrender
had taken place, in search of some memento of the occasion.We found that
everything had been appropriated before our arrival.Wilmer McLean, in
whose house the surrender took place, informed us that on his farm at
Manassas the first battle of Bull Run was fought.I asked him to write his
name in my diary, for which, much to his surprise.Others did the same, and I was told that he thus received quite a golden
harvest.While all of the regiments of the division shared largely in the glories
of these two days, none excelled the Second New York Cavalry in its record
of great and glorious deeds.Well might its officers and men carry their
heads high, and feel elated with pride as they received the
congratulations and commendations showered on them from all sides.They
felt they had done their duty, and given the "tottering giant" a blow that
laid him prostrate at their feet, never, it is to be hoped, to rise again.Here the lads had
made numerous friends and incidentally a number of enemies.Of the friends several have already been named, and others will
come to the front as our story proceeds.Of the enemies the
principal ones were Arnold Baxter, a man who had tried, years
before, to defraud the boys' father out of a gold mine in the
West, and his son Dan, who had once been the bully of Putnam Hall.Arnold Baxter's tool was a good-for-nothing scamp named Buddy
Girk, who had once robbed Dick of his watch.Both of these men
were now in jail charged with an important robbery in Albany, and
the Rover boys had aided in bringing the men to justice.Dan, the
bully, was also under arrest, charged with the abduction of Dora
Stanhope.Dora, who was Dick Rover's dearest friend, had been
carried off by the directions of Josiah Crabtree, a former teacher
of Putnam Hall, who wished to marry Mrs.Stanhope and thus get his
hands on the money the widow held in trust for her daughter, but
the abduction had been nipped in the bud and Josiah Crabtree had
fled, leaving Dan Baxter to shoulder the blame of the transaction.How Dora was restored to her mother and what happened afterward,
old readers already know.A winter had passed since the events narrated above, and before
and after the holidays the Rover boys had studied diligently, to
make up for the time lost on that never-to-be-forgotten ocean
chase.Their efforts had not been in vain, and each lad had been
promoted to the next higher class, much to Randolph Rover's
satisfaction and the joy of their tender-hearted Aunt Martha."The boys are all right, even if they do love to play pranks," was
Randolph Rover's comment, when he heard of the promotions."I
trust they improve their time during the term to come.""They are good boys, Randolph," returned Mr."They would
not be real boys if they did not cut up once in a while.As to
their daring--why, they simply take after their father.If only we knew, what had become of him.""Yes, a great weight would be lifted from our shoulders, Martha,
if we knew that.But we do not know, and there seems to be no way
of finding out.I have written to the authorities at various
places in Africa until I know not whom to address next.""He must be dead, otherwise he would write or come home, Randolph.He was not one to keep us in the dark so long.""I cannot believe my brother dead, and the boys will not believe
it either.Do you know what Dick said to me before he left for
school?He said, that if we didn't get word he was going to
Africa some day to hunt his father up."What will that boy do in such a jungle, and among
such fierce natives?The boy is uncommonly shrewd, when it comes to
dealing with his enemies.Just look how nicely he and Tom and Sam
served Arnold Baxter and those others.It was wonderful doings--for
boys.""Yes, but they may not be so successful always, Randolph.I
should hate to see them run into any more, danger."But they will take care of themselves, I
feel that more and more every day," concluded Randolph Rover; and
there, for the time being, the subject was dropped."I wonder what has become of old Josiah Crabtree?"remarked Dick
Rover, as he and his brothers walked around the parade ground to
inspect several improvement which Captain Putnam had caused to be
made."I'm sure I can't guess," answered Tom."Like as not he became scared to death.I suppose you'll be
satisfied if he keeps away from Dora and her mother in the
future?""Yes; I never want to set eyes on him again, Tom.He worried the
widow half to death with his strange ways.""I wonder how the Baxters feel to be locked up?""I
know Arnold Baxter is used to it, but it's a new experience for
Dan.""Dan is as bad as his father," broke in Larry Colby, who had
joined the brothers."I was glad to hear that Mumps had turned
over a new leaf and cut the bully dead.""By the way, do you know where
Mumps is now?In the mining business, out West, acting as some
sort of a clerk.""A spell in the West will take the nonsense out of him," came from
Dick."It was a great pity he ever got under Dan Baxter's
influence I wonder how Arnold Baxter is getting along?He was
quite severely wounded, you know, during that tussle on the
yachts.""He's about over that, so Frank Harrington says," replied Larry."I'll wager he is mighty bitter against you fellows for having put
him where he is.""It was his own, fault, Larry.If a person is going to do wrong
he must take the consequences.Baxter might today be a fairly
well-to-do mine owner of the West and Dan might be a leading cadet
here.But instead they both threw themselves away--and now they
must take what comes.""My father used to say it took all kind of people to make a
world," went on Larry."But I reckon we could do without the
Baxter and the Buddy Girk kind.""And the Josiah Crabtree kind," added Sam."Don't forget that
miserable sneak.""Perhaps Crabtree has reformed, like Mumps.""It wasn't in him to reform, Larry," came from Tom."Oh, how I
detested him, with his slick, oily tongue!I wish they had caught
him and placed him where he deserved to be, with the Baxters.""Yes, and then we could--" began Sam, when he stopped."Hullo,
Frank, what are, you running so fast about?"burst out Frank Harrington,
as he came up out of breath."I knew you would want to hear the
news.Dan Baxter has escaped from jail and the authorities don't
know where to look for him."CHAPTER II

NEWCOMERS AT THE ACADEMY


"Dan Baxter has escaped!""He says it is reported that the jailer was sick and unable to
stop Dan."Then they must have had some sort of a row," put in Tom."Well, it does beat the nation how the Baxters do it.Don't you
remember how Arnold Baxter escaped from the hospital authorities
last year?""Those Baxters are as slick as you can make them," said Frank."I've been thinking if Dan would dare to show himself around
Putnam Hall.""He'll travel as far can and as fast as he
can.""I rather he will hang around and try to
help his father out of prison.""That won't help him, for the authorities will be on strict guard
now.You know the stable door is always locked after the horse is
stolen."At this there was a general laugh, and when it ended a loud roll
of a drum made the young cadets hurry to the front of the parade
ground.came the command from the major of
the battalion, and the boys fell in.Dick was now a first
lieutenant, while Tom and Sam were first and second sergeants
respectively.As soon as the companies were formed they were marched around the
Hall and to the messroom.Here they were kept standing in a long
fine while George Strong came to the front with half a dozen new
pupils."Young gentlemen, I will introduce to you several who will join
your ranks for this season," said the head assistant.Then he
began to name the half dozen.Among others they included a
round-faced German youth named Hans Mueller, and a tall, lank,
red-haired boy, of Irish descent who rejoiced in the name of Jim
Caven."I'll wager the Dutch boy is full of fun," whispered Sam to Tom."I don't like the looks of that Jim Caven," returned Tom."He
looks like a worse sneak than Mumps ever was."Perhaps we had better keep, our eyes open for
him."Despite this talk, however, the newcomers were welcomed cordially,
and to the credit of the students be it said that each old cadet
did all in his power to make the new boys feel perfectly at home."Mine fadder vos von soldier py der Cherman army," said Hans
Mueller."Dot's vy he sent me py a military academy ven we come
py dis country.""Glad to know you intend to help us fight the Indians," answered
Tom innocently.demanded Hans, his
light-blue eyes wide open with interest."Why, don't you know that we are here to learn how to fight
Indians?"went on Tom, with a side wink at those around him."No; I dink me dis vos von school only.""So it is--a school to learn how to shoot and scalp.""Cut an Indian's top-knot off with a knife, this way," and Tom
made an imaginary slash at Hans' golden locks.stammered the German boy, falling back."No, I
ton't vant to learn to schalp, noputty.""But you are willing to fight the Indians, are you not?""We are all going to do that, you know.""I ton't like dem Indians," sighed Hans."I see me some of dem
vonde by a show in Chermany, und I vos afraid."How much further the joke would have
been carried it is impossible to say, but just then a bell rang
and the boys had to go into the classroom.But Tom remembered
about the Indians, as the others found out about a week later.As the majority of the scholars had been to the Hall before, it
did not take long for matters to become settled, and in a few days
all of the boys felt thoroughly at home, that is, all but Jim
Caven, who went around with that same sneaking look on his face
that Tom had first noticed.He made but few friends, and those
only among the smaller boys who had plenty of pocket money to
spend.Caven rarely showed any money of his own.With the coming of spring the cadets formed, as of old, several
football teams, and played several notches, including one with
their old rivals, the pupils of Pornell Academy.This game they
lost, by a score of four to five, which made the Pornellites feel
much better, they having lost every game in the past.(For the
doings of the Putnam Hall students previous to the arrival at that
institution of the Rover boys see, "The Putnam Hall Series," the
first volume of which is entitled, "The Putnam Hall Cadets."--Publisher)

"Well, we can't expect to beat always," said Tom, who played
quarterback on the Putnam team."Yes, and we might have won if Larry hadn't slipped and sprained
his ankle," put in Sam."Well, never mind; better luck next time.Sam was right so far as a game
between the rival academies was concerned, but none of the Rover
boys were on hand to take part in the contest--for reasons which
the chapter to follow will disclose.With the football came kite-flying, and wonderful indeed were some
of the kites which the boys manufactured."I can tell you, if a fellow had time he could reduce kite-flying
to a regular science," said Dick."Oh, Dick, don't give us any more science!""We get
enough of science from, Uncle Randolph, with his scientific
farming, fowl-raising, and the like.I would just as lief fly an
old-fashioned kite as anything.""Dick is right, though," put in Fred Garrison."Now you have a
big flat-kite there, three times larger than mine.Yet I'll wager
my little box kite will fly higher than your kite.""Ice cream for the boys of our dormitory," answered Fred."All right, but how is a fellow to get the cream if he loses?""That's for him to find out, Sam.If I lose I'll sneak off to
Cedarville, as Dick did once, and buy what I need.""Ice cream for our room it is," said."And mum's the word about the wager, or Captain Putnam will spoil
the whole affair if he gets wind of it.""I'd just like to lay hands on
about two quarts of chocolate cream.""There won't be any stakeholder," said Dick."But when is this kite-flying contest to come off?"The matter was talked over, and it was decided to wait until the
next Saturday, which would be, as usual, a half-holiday.In the
meantime some of the other boys heard there was going to be a
contest, although they knew nothing of the wager made, and half a
dozen other matches were arranged.Saturday proved to be cool and clear with a stiff breeze blowing
directly from the west.This being so, it was decided, in order
to get clear of the woods in front of the Hall, to hold the
contests on Baker's Plain, a level patch of ground some distance
to the westward.The cadets were soon on the way, shouting and laughing merrily
over the sport promised.Only a few remained behind, including
Jim Caven, who gave as his excuse that he had a headache."I'm glad he is not with us," said Dick."I declare, for some
reason, I can't bear to have him around.""It's queer, but he gives me the shivers
whenever he comes near me.""It's a wonder he came here at all.He doesn't belong in our
style of a crowd."To reach Baker's Plain the cadets had to make a detour around a
high cliff which overlooked a rocky watercourse which flowed into
Cayuga Lake.They moved slowly, as nobody wished to damage his
kite, and it was after two o'clock before all hands were ready for
the first trial at kite-flying."Sam, have you a good strong cord on your kite?""The strongest I could get," answered the youngest Rover."I
guess it is stronger than what Fred has.""My kite won't pull like yours," said Fred Garrison."Then up they go--and may the best kite win!"Soon a dozen kites of various kinds were soaring in the air, some
quite steadily and others darting angrily from side to side.One
went up with a swoop, to come down with a bang on the rocks, thus
knocking itself into a hundred pieces."Mine
Gretchen kite vos busted up--und I spent me feefteen cents on
him alreety!""You can help sail the Katydid.She will pull strong enough for two, I am sure."The Katydid was a wonderful affair of silver and gold which Dick
had constructed on ideas entirely his own.It went up slowly but
surely and proved to be as good a kite as the majority.A number of girls living in the neighborhood, bad heard of the
kite-flying contests, and now they came up, Dora Stanhope with the
rest, accompanied by her two cousins, Grace and Nellie Laning.As
my old readers may guess, Dick was very attentive to Dora, and his
brothers were scarcely less so to the two Laning sisters.Dick asked of Dora, during the course of
their conversation."She is much better," replied Dora, "although she is still weak
from her sickness.""Does she ever mention Josiah Crabtree?"She said that she had dreamed of him and
of you, Nick.""Oh--it was only a silly affair, Dick, not worth mentioning.""But I would like to know what it was.""Well, then, she dreamed that both of you were in a big forest and
he was about to attack you with a gun or a club, she couldn't tell
which.She awoke screaming and I ran to her side, and that is how
she told me of the dream."CHAPTER III

AN OLD ENEMY TURNS UP


"That was certainly an odd dream," said Dick, after a short pause."I am sure I never want to meet Josiah Crabtree under such
circumstances.""It was silly, Dick--I'd forget it if I was you.""And she never mentioned the man at any other time?"But I am certain she is glad he has left for parts unknown.I never, never, want to see him again," and the girl shivered."Don't be alarmed, Dora; I don't think he will dare to show
himself," answered Dick, and on the sly gave her hand a tight
squeeze.They were warmer friends than ever since Dick had
rescued her from those who had abducted her.The kite-flying was now in "full blast," as Sam expressed it, and
the boys had all they could do to keep the various lines from
becoming tangled up.His own kite and Fred's were side by side
and for a long time it looked as if neither would mount above the
other.cried several of the
cadets."Play out a bit more, Sam; you haven't given your kite all the
slack she wants," said others.So the talk ran on, while each
contestant did the best to make his kite mount higher.In the
meantime the wind kept increasing in violence, making each kite
pull harder than ever."It's a dandy for flying," panted Tom, who was holding his kite
with all the strength he possessed."Something must give way
soon," and something did give way.It was the string he was
holding, and as it snapped he went over on his back in such a
comical fashion that all, even to the girls, had to laugh."You should
have brought a stronger cord.""If I had I'd a-gone up in the clouds," answered Tom ruefully."That's the last of that kite, I suppose; if I--"

"The string has caught on Sam's kite!""Fred, your flying is
nowhere now.""He didn't calculate to fly one kite against two," answered Fred."Hold on, Sam, where are you going?"Oh, stop him somebody, before he goes over the cliff!""Don't go any closer to the
cliff!""Oh, dear, it's cutting me like a knife!""He's in a mess," came from Frank."If he isn't careful he'll go
over the cliff, as sure as he's born!"went on Dick, and, leaving his kite in Hans
Mueller's care, he ran after his brother.By this time Sam had gained a few bushes which grew but a dozen
feet away from the edge of the cliff, that at this point was
nearly forty feet in height.With his right hand held a painful
prisoner, he clutched at the bushes with his left."I've got the bushes, but I can't hold on long!"he panted, as
Dick came close.Scarcely had the words left his mouth when the bushes came up by
the roots and poor Sam fell over on his side.Then came another
strong puff of wind, and he was dragged to the very edge of the
rocky ledge!he screamed, when, making a mighty leap, Dick caught
him by the foot."If you
don't you'll be killed!""Oh, Dick, don't let me go
over!""I'll do my best, Sam," was Dick's answer, and he held on like
grim death.By this time half a dozen boys were running to the scene.Dora
Stanhope followed, and as she came up she pulled a tiny penknife
from her pocket."Can't I cut the line with this?"she asked, timidly, as she
pushed her way to Dick's side."Oh, my wrist is almost cut in
two!"Stooping low, Dora sawed away at the kite line, which was as taut
as a string on a bass fiddle.Suddenly there was a loud snap and
the cord parted.Sam and Dick fell back from the edge of the
cliff, while the entangled kites soared away for parts unknown."Thank Heaven you cut the line, Dora!"said Dick, who was the
first to recover from the excitement of the situation.He saw
that Dora was trembling like a leaf, and he hastened to her
support, but she pushed him away and pointed to Sam."Don't mind me--I am all right, Dick," she said."Here is my handkerchief; he had better bind it up with that,"
said Grace Laning, as she offered the article."We'll wash the wound first," put in Frank, and raced off for some
water.Soon he returned with his stiff hat full, and the cut on
Sam's wrist was tenderly washed by the Laning girls, who then
bound it up with the skill of a hospital surgeon.The kite-flying continued for the balance of the afternoon.But
Sam and Dick had had enough of it, and, along with Tom, they took
a stroll along the lake front with Dora Stanhope and Grace and
Nellie.Of course both boys and girls talked a whole lot of
nonsense, yet all enjoyed the walk very much."This is the spot where they abducted me," shivered Dora, as they
came to the old boathouse."Oh, what a dreadful time that was, to
be sure!""I don't believe our enemies will bother you any more, Dora," said
Dick."It's not likely that old Crabtree Will try the same game
twice; and Mumps has really turned over a new leaf and gone to
work for a living.""Yes, I was glad to hear that, for I don't believe he was such a
bad fellow at heart.He was under Dan Baxter's influence, just
as--as--"

"As Josiah Crabtree tried to influence your mother," whispered
Dick, and Dora nodded slowly."Well, let us forget it, and--My
gracious!"Dick stopped short, to stare in open-mouthed wonder at a small
boat shooting down the lake at a distance of several hundred yards
from the shore."Don't you see that fellow in the boat?"demanded Dick, in
increased wonder."Of course we see him," answered Tom."No; he's too far off," came from Sam..

"It's Dan Baxter!""It does look a little like Baxter," was Sam's slow comment."Yet
it seems impossible that he could be here, as Tom says.""I say it's Baxter," affirmed Dick stoutly,  "I'll hail him and
make sure.""Oh, don't bring him over here!"interposed Dora, becoming
alarmed."Don't be alarmed--he shan't hurt anybody, Dora."At first there was no reply, and the boy in the rowboat kept on
pulling.But as Dick repeated his call, the rower threw up his
oars."You mind your own business," he growled."Guess I can row on the
lake if I want to.""I wish my wrist wasn't so sore--I'd
go after him.""There's a boat below here," said Dick."He may--may shoot at you," faltered Dora."You know how wicked
he can be at times.""But he ought to be handed
over to the authorities.It is a crime to let him go free."Come over here; we want to talk to you!"growled the former bully of Putnam Hall."If you don't come we'll bring
you.""Hush, Sam, or you'll make a mess of things!"cried Dick softly,
but the warning came too late."Just try it on and
see how I'll fix you.""Come on for the boat," said Tom."We'll show him he can't scare
us."Sam was also about to
follow, when his elder brother stopped him."You can't do much with that sore wrist, Sam," he said."Better
stay with the girls until we come back.You can watch events from
the shore, and run for assistance, if it's necessary."Sam demurred at first, but soon saw the wisdom of  Dick's
reasoning and consented to remain behind.By this time Tom had shoved out the rowboat Dick had mentioned--a
neat craft belonging to a farmer living near.A pair of oars
lay in a locker on the lake bank; and, securing these, Tom leaped
on board of the craft, and soon Dick came after.Dan Baxter had watched their movement with interest, which
speedily gave way to arm when he saw the other boat come out, and
beheld Dick and Tom each take up an oar and begin to pull for all
they could."I was a clam to come up here, when there  is no real need for
it," he muttered.Well, I reckon I can put up a
pretty stiff fight if it comes to the worst."Then he caught up
his oars once more, and began to row down Cayuga Lake with all
possible speed.CHAPTER IV

THE CHASE ON THE LAKE


"He means to give us as much of a chase as possible," remarked
Tom, as he glanced over his shoulder."If I remember rightly,
Baxter was always a pretty fair oarsman.""Yes, that was the one thing he could do well," returned Dick."But we ought to be able to catch him, Tom.""We could if we had two pairs of oars.One pair can do just about
so much and no more."Now, both together, and put all your muscle into it,"
and Dick set a stiff stroke that his brother followed with
difficulty.Baxter had been rowing down the lake, but as soon as he saw that
he was being pursued he changed his course for the east shore.He
was settled to his work, and for several minutes it was hard to
tell whether he was holding his own or losing.cried Dick, after pulling for five
minutes."Keep at it, Tom, and we'll have him before he is half
over.""Gosh, but it's hot work!""He
must be almost exhausted to row like that."He sees the prison cell staring
him in the face again.You'd do your best, too, if you were in
his place.""I'm doing my best now, Dick.Dick set a faster stroke than ever, having caught his
second wind, and the rowboat flew over the calm surface of the
lake like a thing of life.The cry came from Baxter, while he was still a
hundred yards from the eastern shore."Keep off, or it will be
the worse for you!""We are not afraid of you, Baxter, and you ought to know it by
this time," answered Dick."You may as well give in now as later
on.""We are two to one, and you know what we have been able to do in
the past."I don't intend to go to jug again, and that is all there
is to it."Are you--going to keep off or not?"If you don't I--I'll shoot you."As Dan Baxter spoke he stopped rowing and brought from a hip
pocket a highly polished nickel-plated revolver.he demanded, as he pointed the weapon toward
the Rover boys.Both Dick and Tom were taken aback at the sight of the weapon.But they had seen such arms before, and had faced them,
consequently they were not as greatly alarmed as they right
otherwise have been.They knew, too, that Dan Baxter was a
notoriously bad shot."Put that up, Baxter," said Dick calmly."It may only get you
into deeper trouble.""I'm not going back to
jail and that is all there, is to it!""You won't dare to shoot at us, and you know it," put in Tom, as
the two boats drifted closer together."I will, and don't you fool yourself on it.""Drop those oars or I'll fire, as sure as my name is Dan Baxter,"
and the revolver, which had been partly lowered, was raised a
second time.It must be confessed that Dick and Tom were much disconcerted.The two rowboats were now less than fifty feet apart, and any kind
of a shot from the weapon was likely to prove more or less
dangerous.Baxter's eyes gleamed with the hatred of an angry
snake ready to strike."You think you are smart, you Rover boys," said the bully, after
an awkward pause all around."You think you did a big thing in
rescuing Dora Stanhope and in putting me and my father and Buddy
Girk in prison.But let me tell you that this game hasn't come to
an end yet, and some day we intend to square accounts.""There is no use in wasting breath in this fashion, Baxter,"
returned Dick, as calmly as he could."We are two to one, and the
best thing to do is for you to submit.If you fire on us, we may
do a little shooting on our own account."Do you imagine you can scare me in that fashion?You
haven't any pistol, and I know it.If you had you would have
drawn the weapon long ago.""Don't be too sure," he said steadily,
as the boats drifted still closer together."The minute I heard
you had escaped from jail I went and bought a pistol in
Cedarville."This was the strict truth, but Dick did not add that
the weapon lay at that moment safe in the bottom of his trunk at
the Hall."Got afraid I'd come around, eh?""I knew there was nothing like becoming prepared.Now will you--"

Dick did not have time to finish, for, lowering the front end of
the pistol, Dan Baxter pulled the trigger twice and two reports
rang out in quick succession.One bullet buried itself in the
seat beside Tom, while the second plowed its way through the
bottom, near the stern.cried Dick, and in his excitement hurled his oar at
Dan Baxter, hitting the fellow across the fact with such force
that the bully's nose began to bleed.The shock made Baxter lose
his hold on the pistol and it went over the side of his craft and
sank immediately to the bottom of the lake."My, but that was a close shave!"muttered Tom, as he gazed at the
hole through the seat."A little closer and I would have got it
in the stomach."A yell now came from Sam, and a shriek from the girls, all of whom
had heard the pistol shots.They were too far away to see the
result of the shooting and feared both Tom and Dick had been
killed or wounded.As quickly as he could recover from the blow of the oar, Dan
Baxter picked up his own blades, and without paying attention to
the blood which was flowing from his nose, began once again to
pull for the shore.shouted Dick, and then his face
fell."Confound it, I've thrown away my oar!And
he pointed some distance to their left."Look at that hole in
the bottom, made by that pistol shot.The water is coming in just
as fast as it can."There was small need to call attention to it, for the water in the
bottom of the boat was already an inch deep.Dick started in
perplexity, then, struck by a sudden idea, drew a lead pencil from
his pocket and rammed it into the opening.It fitted very well,
and the water ceased, to come in."Now we'll have to bail out and pick up that other oar," said Tom."It was foolish to throw it away, Dick."Paddle over, and I'll pick it up."Tom did so, and the blade was
speedily recovered.But Dan Baxter had made good use of the precious moments lost by
the Rover boys, and hardly were the latter into shape for rowing
once more than they saw the bully beach his craft and leap out on
the shore."I told you
that you couldn't catch me.The next time we meet I'll make you
sorry that you ever followed me," and he started to run off with
all possible speed.Tom and Dick were too chagrined to answer him, and pulled forward
to the shore in silence.They ran the craft into some bushes and
tied up, and then started after Baxter, who was now making for the
woods south of the village of Nelson.When the highway skirting this portion of Cayuga Lake was gained
Dan Baxter was a good five hundred feet ahead of them.A turn in
the road soon hid him from view.Gaining the bend they discovered
that he had disappeared from view altogether."He has taken to the woods," sighed Dick."If that is so we may as well give the hunt up," answered his
brother."It would be worse than looking for a pin in a haystack,
for we wouldn't know what direction he had taken.""I wish I had a bloodhound with which to trail him.He ought to
be run down, Tom.""Well, let us notify some of the people living near and see what
can be done."They ran on to the spot where they supposed Baxter had left the
highway.On both sides were dense thickets of cedars with heavy
underbrush.All in all, the locality formed an ideal hiding
place.Night was coming on by the time they gained the nearest farmhouse.Here they found three men, to whom they explained the situation."If he went into the woods it would be a hard job to trail him,"
was the comment from Farmer Mason."If he ain't careful he'll
lose himself so completely he'll never git out, b'gosh!""Well, I don't know but what that would suit me," responded Tom
dryly.The search was begun, and several others joined in.It lasted
until night was fairly upon the party and was then given up in
disgust."But we ought to notify the authorities," said Tom."They will
probably put a detective on his track.""Yes; but a detective can't do any more than we can, up in this
wild locality.""He won't remain in the woods forever."Well, we can send the police a telegram from Cedarville."This was done, and the Rover boys returned to Putnam Hall by way
of the side road leaving past the homes of the Stanhopes and the
Lanings.They found Sam and the girls very anxious concerning
their welfare."We were afraid you had been shot," said Dora."But it's too bad that Baxter got away.I
wonder where he will turn up next."They all wondered, but could not even venture an answer.Soon the
boys left the girls and hurried to the academy, where their story,
had to be told over again.Captain Putnam looked exceedingly
grave over the narrative."You must be careful in the future, lads," he said."Remember,
you are in my care here.I do not know what your uncle would say
if anything should happen to you.""We will be on our guard in the future," answered Dick."But I am
awfully sorry we didn't catch him.""So am I.  But perhaps the authorities will have better luck," and
there the talk came to an end, and the boys retired for the night.CHAPTER V

FUN AND AN EXPLOSION


Several days slipped by, and the boys waited anxiously for some
news from the authorities.But none came, and they rightfully
surmised that, for the time being, Dan Baxter had made good his
escape.On account of the disastrous ending to the kite-flying match, many
had supposed that the feast in Dormitory No.6 was not to come
off, but Sam, Tom, Frank, and several others got their heads
together and prepared for a "layout" for the following Wednesday,
which would be Dick's birthday."We'll give him a surprise," said Sam, and so it was agreed.Passing around the hat netted exactly three dollars and a quarter,
and Tom, Sam, and Fred Garrison were delegated to purchase the
candies, cake, and ice cream which were to constitute the spread."We'll do the thing up brown," said Sam."We must strike higher than that feast we had, last year."came from Tom, "Oh dear, do you remember how we
served Mumps that night!"and he set up a roar over the
remembrance of the scene.Hans Mueller had become one of the occupants of the dormitory, and
he was as much, interested as anybody in the preparations for the
spread."I like to have von feast
twist a veek, ha I ha!"He's a jolly dog," said Tom to Frank."But, say, I've been thinking of having some fun with him before
this spread comes off.""Let me in on the ground floor," pleaded Frank, who always wok a
great interest in Tom's jokes."I will, on one condition, Frank.""That you loan me that masquerade suit you have in your trunk.The one you used at that New Year's dance at home.""Hullo, I reckon I smell a mouse!""I
heard you giving Hans that yarn about us training to fight
Indians."'"I did indeed; and I heard Hans say that he wanted nothing to do
with the Indians.""Well, he's going to have something to do with at least one
Indian," grinned Tom."What do you say I get the suit?""Yes; if you'll fix it so that I can see the sport.""All of the crowd can see it, if they don't leak about it,"
returned the fun-loving Rover.Tom soon had the masquerade suit in his possession and also, some
face paints which Frank had saved from the New Year's dance mentioned.Shortly afterward Tom joined the crowd in the gymnasium, where
Hans Mueller was trying to do some vaulting over the bars."I dink I could chump dem sticks of I vos taller," the German
youth was saying."Or the sticks were lower," replied Tom, with a wink at the crowd."That's right, Hans, you had better learn how to jump now, and to
run, too.""The Indians have come," put in Frank."They say a band of them are in the woods around here," answered
Tom."If you go out you want to be careful or they may scalp
you.""Cracious, Rofer, ton't say dot!""Vot is
dem Indians doing here annavay?""They came in East to hunt up some buffalo that got away.They
had something like half a million in a corral, and about two
thousand got away from them."This preposterous announcement was taken by Hans Mueller in all
seriousness, and he asked Tom all sorts of ridiculous questions
about the savage red men, whom he supposed as wild and wily as
those of generations ago."No, I ton't vonts to meet any of dem," he said at last."Da vos
von pad lot alretty!""That's right, Hans, you give them a wide berth," said Tom, and
walked away.Later on Tom persuaded Dick to ask Hans if he would not walk down
to Cedarville for him, to buy him a baseball.Eager to be
accommodating, the German youth received the necessary permission
to leave the academy acres and hurried off at the full speed of
his sturdy legs.cried Tom, and ran off for the Indian suit and
the face paints.These he took down to the bam and set to work to
transform himself into a wild-looking red man.grinned Peleg Snuggers, who stood watching
him."We never had such a lad as you before Master Thomas.""Thanks, Peleg, and perhaps you'll never have one like me again--and
then you'll be dreadfully sorry.""Mum's the word, old man.""Oh, I never say nuthin, Master Thomas; you know that," returned
the man-of-all-work.A number of the other pupils had been let into the secret, and,
led by Dick, they ran off to the woods lining the Cedarville road.Tom came after them, skulking along that nobody driving by might
catch sight of him.Not quite an hour later Hans Mueller was heard coming back.The
German boy was humming to himself and at the same time throwing up
the new ball he had purchased for Dick.thundered out Tom, as he leaped from behind a big
tree."Dutcha boy heap big scalp-me take um!And he
danced up to Hans, flourishing a big tin knife as he did so.The
masquerade was a perfect one, and he looked like an Indian who had
just stepped forth from some Wild West show.screamed Hans, as he stopped short and grew white."It's dem Indians come to take mine hair!Oh, please, Mister
Indian, ton't vos touch me!""Dutcha boy heap nice hair," continued Tom, drawing nearer."Maka
nice door-mat for Big Wolf."No, no; ton't vos touch mine hair-it vos all der hair I vos got!""Please, Mister Indian mans, let me go!"bellowed Tom, drawing forth a
rusty pistol he had picked up in the barn.This rusty pistol had
done lots of duty at fun-making before.Then he fell on his knees
in despair.Tom could scarcely keep from laughing at the sight, and a snicker
or two could be heard coming from where Frank, Dick, and the
others were concealed behind the bushes.But the German youth was
too terrorized to notice anything but that awful red man before
him, with his hideous war-paint of blue and yellow."Dutcha boy dance for Big Wolf," went on Tom.And the fun-loving Rover set the pace in a mad,
caper that would have done credit to a Zulu.faltered Hans, and then, thinking he might
appease the wrath of his unexpected enemy he began to caper about
in a clumsy fashion which was comical in the extreme."Dutcha boy take the cake for
flingin' hees boots.Faster, faster, or Big Wolf shoot, bang!""No, no; I vos dance so hard as I can!"panted Hans, and renewed
his exertions until Tom could keep in no longer, and set up such a
laugh as had not been heard around the Hall for many a day.It is
needless to add that the other boys joined in, still, however,
keeping out of sight."You're a corker, Hans!""You
ought to join the buck-and-wing dancers in a minstrel company."began the German boy in bewilderment."To be sure I am; I'm Big Wolf, the Head Dancing Master of the
Tuscaroras, Hans, dear boy.Don't you think I'm a stunner.""You vos Tom Rofer, made up," growled Hans in sudden and deep
disgust."Vot for you vos blay me such a drick as dis, hey?""I ton't vos been asleep, not me!""I mean to stir up your ideas--put something new into your
head.""Mine head vos all right, Tom.""Den vot you say you vos put somedings new py him, hey?""I mean to make you sharper-put you on your mettle.""I ton't understand," stammered the German youth hopelessly."That's so, and you won't in a thousand years, Hans.But you are
the right sort, any way.""I dink  I blay me Indian mineselluf some tay," mused Hans."Dot
vos lots of fun to make me tance, vosn't it?Vere you got dot
bistol?"Look out, or it may go off," added Tom, as he
held out the weapons, thinking Hans would draw back in alarm.Instead, however, the German boy took the pistol and of a sudden
pointed it at Tom's head."Tance, or I vos shoot you
full of holes!""Hi, Tom; he's got the best of you now!""You can't make me dance, Hans," returned Tom."That old rusty
iron hasn't been loaded for years.""It ton't vos no goot?"Pull the trigger and see," answered Tom coolly.He had scarcely spoken when Hans Mueller did as advised.A
tremendous report followed, and when the smoke cleared away the
boys in the bushes were horrified to see that the rusty pistol had
been shattered into a thousand pieces and that both Tom and Hans
lay on their backs in the road, their faces covered with blood.CHAPTER VI

THE STRANGE FIGURE IN THE HALLWAY


At the fearful outcome of the joke Tom had been perpetrating the
boys concealed in the bushes were almost struck dumb, and for
several seconds nobody could speak or move."Oh, Heavens, Tom is killed!"burst out Dick, who was the first to
find his voice.He ran forth as speedily as possible, and one
after another the other cadets followed.Tom lay as quiet as death, with his eyes closed and the blood
trickling over his temple and left cheek.Quickly Dick knelt by
his side and felt of his heart.But no answer came back, and Sam raced off to get some water,
which he brought in a tin can he had discovered lying handy.The
water was dashed over Toni's face, and presently he gave a little
gasp.he murmured, and then tried to sit up,
but for the minute the effort was a failure."A piece must have hit you on
the head," and he pointed at a nasty scalp wound from which the
flow of blood emanated.As well as it could be done, Frank and Dick bound up Tom's head
with a handkerchief, and presently the fun-loving lad declared
himself about as well as ever, "Only a bit light-headed," as he
added.In the meantime the others had given their attention to Hans, who
had been struck both in the scalp and in the shoulder.It was a
good quarter of an hour before the German youth came around, and
then he felt so weak that the boys had to assist him back to the
academy."Honestly, I thought the pistol was empty," said Tom, on the
return to the Hall."Why, I think I've pulled that trigger a
dozen times.""Don't mention it," said Frank with a shiver."Why, only last
week I pointed the thing at Peleg Snuggers and played at firing
it.Supposing it had gone off and killed somebody?""Dot vos almost as pad as von Indian's schalping," put in Hans
faintly."I dink, Tom, you vos play no more such dricks, hey?""No, I've had enough," replied Tom very soberly."If you had been
killed or seriously hurt I would never have forgiven myself."And
it may be added here that for some time after this event
fun-making and Tom were strangers to each other.At the proper time the feast which had been planned came off, and
proved to be an event not readily forgotten.It was no easy
matter to obtain the good things required, and the boys ran the
risk of being discovered by George Strong and punished; but by
midnight everything was ready, and soon eating was "in full
blast," to use Sam's way of expressing it.A few of the boys from the other dormitories had been invited, and
the boys took turns in standing out in the hall on guard."You see," explained Tom, "Mr.Strong may come in, and I won't be
able to play nightmare again, as I did last year.""Say, but that was a prime joke," laughed Frank."I'll never forget the orange flavored
with kerosene," and a general laugh followed.Somebody had spoken of inviting Jim Caven to the feast, but no one
cared particularly for the fellow, and he had been left out."Perhaps he'll tell on us," suggested Larry, but Frank shook his
head."He hasn't got backbone enough to do it.He's a worse coward than
Mumps was."Soon it came time for Sam to do his turn at guarding, and stuffing
a big bit of candy in his mouth, the youngest Rover stepped out
into the dimly lit hallway and sat down on a low stool which one
of the guards had placed there.For ten or fifteen minutes nothing occurred to disturb Sam, and he
was just beginning to think that watching was all nonsense when he
saw a dark figure creeping along the wall at the extreme lower end
of the hallway, where it made a turn toward the back stairs.He continued to watch the figure, and now saw that it was dressed
in a black suit and had what looked like a shawl over its head."That's queer," went on the boy."What can that man or boy be up
to?"Presently the figure turned and entered one of the lower
dormitories, closing the door gently behind it.Then it came out
again and made swiftly for the rear of the upper hallway.By
this time Sam was more curious than ever, and as the figure
disappeared around the bend by the back stairs he followed on
tiptoes.But as what light there was came from the front, the rear was very
dark, and the youth could see little or nothing.He heard a door
close and the lock click, but whether or not it was upstairs or
down he could not tell.For several minutes he remained in the rear hallway, and then he
went back to his post.Soon Tom came out to relieve him, and Sam
re-entered the dormitory and told his story to the others."That's certainly odd," was Dick's comment

"Was it a man or a boy, Sam?"If it wasn't a man it was a pretty big
boy.""Perhaps we ought to report the matter to Captain Putnam,"
suggested Frank."That person may have been around the hallways
for no good purpose."perhaps it was somebody who was trying to spy on us,"
put in Fred."If we tell the captain we will only be exposing
ourselves, and I guess you all know what that means.""It means half-holidays cut off for a month," said Dick."Besser you vait und see vot comes of dis," said Hans, and after a
little more talk this idea prevailed, and then the boys went in to
clear up what was left of the feast.Everything was gone but a
little ice-cream, and it did not take long to dispose of this.Sam was bound to have some fun, and instead of eating his last
mouthful of cream he awaited a favorable opportunity and dropped
it down inside of Fred's collar.That's worse than a chunk of
ice!"Go down and sit on the kitchen stove," suggested Dick.I'll sit on Sam's head if I get the chance!"roared Fred, and made a rush for Sam.A scuffle ensued, which
came to a sudden end as both sent a washstand over with a loud
crash."That's noise enough to wake
the dead.""Do you want to bring the captain down on us at the last minute?""Clear up that muss, both of you," said Dick to Sam and Fred.It was Sam's fault--he started the racket."I reckon we had best dust," said one of the boys from another
dormitory."I hear somebody coming already,"
and in a twinkle the outsiders ran for their various quarters,
leaving the occupants of Dormitory No.6 to fix up matters as best
they could.It was no easy job to straighten out the washstand, clear up the
general muss, and disrobe.But the boys were on their mettle, and
in less than two minutes the light was out and all were under the
covers, although, to be sure, Sam had his shoes still on and Tom
was entirely clothed."Boys, what is the row up here?"The call came from Captain
Putnam himself.He was ascending the front stairs, lamp in hand,
and attired in a long dressing gown.As no one answered, he paused in the upper hallway and asked the
question again.Then he looked into one dormitory after another.Well, see that you don't wake up again as soon
as my back is turned," he went on, and soon after walked below
again, a faint smile on his features.He knew that boys were
bound to be more or less mischievous, no matter how strict his
regulations."I'll tell you what, the captain's a brick!"whispered Tom, as he
began to disrobe noiselessly."You wouldn't catch old Crabtree
acting that way.He'd have bad every cadet out of bed and sent
half a dozen of us down to the guard-room.""I guess the captain remembers when he was a cadet himself,"
remarked Dick."I've heard that they cut up some high pranks at
West Point.""George Strong would be just as kind," came from Tom."But say, I
am growing awfully tired.""So am I," came from several others,

Then the good-night word was passed, and soon all of the cadets
were sound asleep, never dreaming of the surprise which awaited
them in the morning.CHAPTER VII

WHO WAS GUILTY?"Boys, I've had my trunk looted!""And I've had my trousers' pockets picked!""And the half-dollar I left on the bureau is gone!"Such were some of the excited exclamations which the Rover boys
heard when they went downstairs the next morning.The speakers
were the youths who occupied Dormitories Numbers 3 and 4, at the
rear of the main upper hall.An inquiry among the lads elicited
the information that everybody had suffered excepting one boy, who
said he had not had any money on hand."I spent my last cent for the spread," he grinned."I guess I'm
the lucky one."The news of the robberies created a profound sensation throughout
Putnam Hall, and both Captain Putnam and George Strong were very
much disturbed."We never had such a thing occur before," said the captain, and he
ordered a strict investigation.All told, something like thirty-two dollars were missing, and also
a gold watch, a silver watch, and several shirt-studs of more or
less value.Among the shirt-studs was one set with a ruby
belonging to a cadet named Weeks.The robbery had
been committed during the night, while the owners of the money and
the various articles slept."I must get at the bottom of this affair," said Captain Putnam."The honor of the academy is at stake."He talked to all of those who had lost anything and promised to
make the matter good.Then he asked each if he had any suspicions
regarding the thief or thieves.No one had, and for the time
being it looked as if the case must fall to the ground.Those who had been at the feast hardly knew what to say or to do.Should they tell the captain of the strange figure Sam had seen in
the hallway?"I'll tell him, and shoulder the blame, if you fellows are
willing," said Sam, after a long discussion."Fun is one thing,
and shielding a thief is another.""You do not know that that
person, was the thief.""More than likely he was," came from Dick."And if he was, who was he?""If you tell Captain
Putnam you'll simply get us all into trouble.""I vote that Sam makes a clean breast of it," said Frank, and
Larry said the same.This was just before dinner, and immediately
after the midday meal had been finished the youngest Rover went up
to the master of the Hall and touched him on the arm."I would like to speak to you in private and at once, Captain
Putnam," he said."Very well, Rover; come with me," was the reply, and Captain
Putnam led the way to his private office."I suppose I should have spoken of this before," said Sam, when
the two were seated."But I didn't want to get the others into
trouble.As it is, Captain Putnam, I want to take the entire blame
on my own shoulders.""Of what I am going to tell you about.We voted to tell you, but
I don't want to be a tattle-tale and get the others into trouble
along with me.""I will hear what you have to say," returned the master of the Hall
briefly."Well, sir, you know it was Dick's birthday yesterday, and we boys
thought we would celebrate a bit.So we had a little blow-out in
our room.""Was that the noise I heard last night?""The noise you heard was from our room, yes.But that isn't what
I was getting at," stammered Sam."We set a guard out in the
hallway to keep watch.""I was out in the hall part of the time, and I saw a dark figure
in the rear hallway prowling around in a most suspicious manner.3 and then came out and disappeared
toward the back stairs.""A man, sir, or else a big boy.He had something like a shawl
over his shoulders and was dressed in black or dark-brown.""You saw him go in and come out of one of the sleeping rooms?""And then he went down the back stairs?""He either went down the stairs or else into one of the back
rooms.I walked back after a minute or two, but I didn't see
anything more of him, although I heard a door close and heard a
key turn in a lock.""Was this before I came up or after?"We went to sleep right after you came up."And now Captain Putnam prepared to
write down the names."Oh, sir; I hope you won't--won't--"

"I'll have to ask you for the names, Samuel.I want to know who
was on foot last night as well as who was robbed.""Surely you don't think any of us was guilty?""I--I think I'll have to refuse to give them, Captain Putnam.""Of course all the boys who sleep in your dormitory were present?""I said I would take this all on my own shoulders, Captain Putnam.Of course, you know I wouldn't have confessed at all; but I don't
wish to give that thief any advantage.""Perhaps the person wasn't a thief at all, only some other cadet
spying upon you.""You may as well give me the names.Hardly knowing whether or not he was doing right, Sam mentioned
all of the cadets who had taken part in the feast.This list
Captain Putnam compared with another containing the names of those
who had been robbed."Thirty-two pupils," he mused."I'll have the whole, school in
this before I finish."The youth wondered what was coming
next, when there was a sudden knock on the door."Come in," said
Captain Putnam, and one of the little boys entered with a letter
in his hand.Strong sent me with this," said the young cadet."He just
found it on the desk in the main recitation room.""All right, Powers; thank you," answered the captain, and took the
letter."You can go," and Powers retired again.The letter was encased in a dirty, envelope on which was printed
in a big hand, in lead pencil:

"CAPT.Taking up a steel blade, the master of the Hall cut open the
envelope and took out the slip of paper it contained.Then he crushed the paper in his
hand and looked sharply at Sam."Samuel, was the party you saw in the hall-way tall and slim?""No; it was too dark for that, and, besides, he had that shawl, or
whatever it was, pretty well up around him.""By the way, you of course know Alexander Pop, our 
waiter."Everybody knows Aleck, and we have had lots of
fun with him, at one time or another.But you surely don't
suspect him, do you?"It contains but two lines, and you can read it
for yourself," and the captain handed over the communication,
which ran as follows:

"Alexander Pop stole that money and the other things."That's a mighty queer letter for anybody to write," murmured Sam,
as he handed it back."Why didn't the writer come to you, as I
have done?""Perhaps he wanted to keep out of trouble.""I don't believe the letter tells the truth, sir.""Because Aleck is too good-hearted a fellow to turn thief.""Well, why don't you have him searched?"Without further ado Sam was dismissed, and Captain Putnam called
George Strong to him and showed the strange letter."He
may have hidden the money and jewelry in his trunk.""We will go up to his apartment," replied Captain Putnam, and a
few minutes later the pair ascended to the attic room which the
 waiter had used for several terms.They found Pop just
fixing up for a trip to Cedarville.He nodded pleasantly, and then looked at both questioningly."Pop, I am afraid I have a very unpleasant duty to perform," began
Captain Putnam."You have heard of the robberies that have been committed?"But--but yo' don't go fo' to distrust me, do
yo', cap'n?"went on the <DW52> man anxiously."I would like to search your trunk and your clothing, Pop.If you
are innocent you will not object.""But, sah, I didn't steal nuffin, sah.""It aint right nohow to'spect an honest  pusson, sah,"
said Aleck, growing angry.I am not guilty, sah, an' dis am not treatin' me jest
right, sah, 'deed it aint, sah.""If you object, Pop, I will be under the painful necessity of
having Snuggers place you under arrest.You know he is a special
officer for the Hall."At this announcement Aleck fell back completely dumfounded."Well, dat's de wust yet!"he muttered, and sank back on a chair,
not knowing what to do next.CHAPTER VIII

IN WHICH ALEXANDER POP RUNS AWAY


"Will you submit to having your trunk examined or not?"demanded
Captain Putnam, after a painful pause, during which Alexander
Pop's eyes rolled wildly from one teacher to the other."Yo' kin examine it if yo' desire," said Aleck."But it's an
outrage, Cap'n Putnam, an' outrage, sah!"Without more ado Captain Putnam approached the waiter's trunk, to
find it locked."Dare, sah, on de nail alongside ob yo' sah."Soon the trunk was unlocked and the lid thrown back.The box
contained a miscellaneous collection of wearing apparel, which the
captain pushed to one side.Then he brought out a cigar box
containing some cheap jewelry and other odds and ends, as well as
two five dollar bills."Dat money am mine, sah," said Aleck."Yo paid me dat las'
Saturday, sall.""That is true, but how did this get here, Pop?"As Captain Putnam paused he held up a stud set with a ruby-the
very stud the cadet Weeks had lost!"Dat--dat stud--I never seen dat shirt-stud before, cap'n,
'deed I didn't," stammered the waiter."That is certainly Weeks' stud; I remember it well," put in George
Strong."He showed it to me one day, stating it was a gift from
his aunt.""And here is a cheap watch," added Captain Putnam, bringing forth
the article."No, sah--I--I never seen dat watch before," answered Aleck
nervously."I dun reckon sumbuddy put up a job on dis poah <DW53>,
sah," he continued ruefully."I believe the job was put up by yourself," answered Captain
Putnam sternly."If you are guilty you had better confess."Alexander Pop stoutly declared
himself innocent, but in the face of the proofs discovered the
master of the Hall would not listen to him."Peleg Snuggers shall take you in charge and drive down to the
Cedarville lock-up," said the captain.The news that some of the things had been found in Pop's trunk
spread with great rapidity.Many were astonished to learn that he
was thought guilty, but a few declared that "a <DW53> wasn't to be
trusted anyway.""<DW65>s are all thieves," said Jim Caven, "never yet saw an
honest one.""Pop's a first-rate fellow,
and the captain has got to have more proof against him before I'll
believe him guilty.""You only say that because he called you down last week," put in
Frank.He referred to a tilt between the new pupil and the
<DW52> man.Jim Caven had tried to be "smart" and had gotten the
worst of the encounter."Yes, I think he's as honest as you are!"burst out Tom, before he
had stopped to think twice.roared Jim Caven, and leaped upon
Tom, with his face as white as the wall."I'll make you smart for
that!"One blow landed on Tom's cheek and another was about to follow,
when Tom dodged and came up under Caven's left arm.Then the two
boys faced each other angrily.cried a number of the cadets, and in a twinkle
a ring was formed around the two contestants."I'm going to give you the worst thrashing you ever had," said
Caven, but in rather a nervous tone."All right, Caven, go ahead and do it," cried Tom."I will stand
up for Aleck Pop, and there you are!"Tom launched forth and caught Caven on the right cheek.The Irish
lad also struck out, but the blow fell short.And
he held Tom with one hand and hit him in the neck with the other.The blow was a telling one, and for a brief instant Tom was dazed.But then he caught his second wind and threw Caven backward.Before the Irish lad could recover his balance, Tom struck him
in the nose, and over rolled his opponent.gasped Jim Caven, as soon as he could speak.and staggering to his feet, he glanced around for
some weapon.Nothing met his view but a garden spade which Peleg
Snuggers had been using, and catching this up he ran for Tom as if
to lay him low forever."He shan't call me a thief!"And he aimed a tremendous blow for Tom's head.Had the spade fallen as intended Tom's cranium might have been split
in twain.But now both Dick and Frank caught the unreasonable youth
and held him while Sam and several others took the spade away.came the unexpected cry from
some outsiders."Yes, give it up, Tom," whispered Sam."We're in hot water enough, on account of that feast.""I'll give it up if Caven is willing," muttered

"I'll meet you another time," answered Caven, and walked rapidly
away.demanded George Strong, as he strode up."Nothing, sir," said one of the boy."Some of the fellows were
wrestling for possession of that spade.""Oh, I was afraid there was a fight," and Mr.He was on his way to the barn, and presently the cadets saw him
come forth with the man-of-fall-work and the light spring wagon."They are going to take poor Aleck to the Cedarville lock-up,"
announced Fred."Poor chap, I never thought this of him!""To me this affair isn't very clear.""I don't believe they will be able to convict him of the crime,"
put in Sam.An hour later Peleg Snuggers started away from Putnam Hall with
his prisoner.Aleck looked the picture of misery as he sat on a
rear seat, his wrists bound together and one leg tied to the wagon
seat with a rope."Dis am a mistake," he groaned.Some of the boys wished to speak to him, but this was not
permitted."You may think I am hard with him," said Captain Putnam, later on,
"but to tell the truth he does not come from a very good family
and he has a step-brother already in prison.""Aleck can't be held responsible for his stepbrother's doings,"
murmured Tom, but not loud enough for the master to hear him.A diligent search had been made for the other stolen articles, but
nothing more was brought to light.If Pop had taken the things he
had either hidden them well or else disposed of them.It was nearly nightfall when Peleg Snuggers drove back to the
Hall.Dick and Tom met him just outside the gates and saw that
the man-of-all-work looked much dejected."Well, Peleg, is he safe in jail?""No, he ain't," was the snappy reply."Why, what did you do with him?"I didn't do nuthin--not me.It was him as did it all--cut
that blessed rope and shoved me over the dashboard on to the
hosses!""Do you mean to say he got away from you?""Yes, he did--got away like a streak o' fightnin', thet's wot he
did, consarn him!"And without another word Peleg drove to the
rear of the Hall, put his team in the barn, and went in to report
to Captain Putnam.Another row resulted, and this nearly cost the utility Man his
position.But it appeared that he was not so much to blame that
Alexander Pop had taken him unawares and finally he was sent away
to his work with the caution to be more careful in the future.Before night and during the next day a hunt was made for the
<DW52> man, but he had left the vicinity entirely, gone to New
York, and shipped on one of the outward-bound ocean vessels.The
Rover boys fancied that they would never see him again, but in
this they were mistaken.CHAPTER IX

THE ROVER BOYS ON WHEELS


"Say, fellows, but this is the greatest sport yet!""I feel like flying, Tom," said Dick Rover."I never thought
wheeling was so grand."It was several weeks later, and the scholars were having a
half-holiday.Just six days before, Randolph Rover had surprised
his three nephews by sending each a handsome bicycle, and it had
taken them hardly any time to learn how to handle the machines."Let us take a ride over to Chardale," said Dick."I understand
that the roads are very good in that direction.""All right, I'm willing," answered Sam, and Tom said the same.Soon the three brothers were on the way, Dick leading and Tom and
Sam coming behind, side by side.It was an ideal day for cycling, cool and clear, and the road they
had elected to take was inviting to the last degree, with its
broad curves, its beautiful trees, and the mountainous views far
to the north and west."It's a wonder we didn't get wheels before," observed Dick."This
beats skating or riding a to bits.""Just you look out that you don't take a header!""This road is all right, but a loose stone might do a pile of
damage.""I've got my eye on the road," answered his big brother."For the
matter of that, we'll all have to keep our eyes open."To reach Chardale they had to cross several bridges and then
descend a long hill, at the foot of which ran the railroad to
several towns north and south.With a laugh, Sam tried
to catch up to him, but could not.went on the
fun-loving Rover, as the hill was gained, and on he started, his
wheel flying faster and faster as yard after yard was covered."I took it off entirely this
morning."This reply had scarcely reached Dick's ears when another sound
came to him which disturbed him greatly.Far away he heard the whistle of a locomotive as it came around
the bottom of the hill.Looking in the direction, he saw the puff
of smoke over the treetops.He tried to cry out, but now the road was rather rough, and he had
to pay strict attention 'to where he was riding."Tom's going to get into trouble," gasped Sam, as he ranged up
alongside of his elder brother."The road crosses the railroad
tracks just below here."As Dick finished he saw a chance to stop and at once dismounted.Then he yelled at the top of his lungs:

"Tom, stop!Stop, or you'll run into the railroad train!"Sam also came to a halt and set up a shout.But Tom was now
speeding along like the wind and did not hear them.Nearer and nearer he shot to the railroad tracks.Then the
whistle of the locomotive broke upon his ears and he turned pale."I don't want to run into that train," he muttered, and tried to
bring his bicycle to a halt.But the movement did not avail without a brake, and so he was
compelled to seek for some side path into which he might guide his
machine.the road was hemmed in with a heavy woods on one side
and a field of rocks on the other.A sudden stop, therefore,
would mean a bad spill, and Tom had no desire to break his bones
by any such proceeding.Nearer and nearer he drew to the railroad crossing.He could now
hear the puffing of the engine quite plainly and caught a glimpse
of the long train over the rocks to his left.On he bounded until
the crossing itself came into view.He was less than a hundred
yards from it--and the oncoming engine was about the same
distance away!There are some moments in one's life that seem hours, and the
present fraction of time was of that sort to poor Tom.He had a
vision of a terrific smash-up, and of Dick and Sam picking up his
lifeless remains from the railroad tracks.he
muttered, and then, just before the tracks were reached, he made
one wild, desperate leap in the direction of a number of bushes
skirting the woods.He turned over and over, hit hard--and for
several seconds knew no more.When Dick and Sam came up they found Tom sitting in the very midst
of the bushes.The bicycle lay among the rocks with the handle-bars
and the spokes of the front wheel badly twisted.asked his big brother sympathetically,
yet glad to learn that Tom had not been ground to death under the
train, which had now passed the crossing."I don't know if I'm hurt or not," was the'slow answer, as Tom
held his handkerchief to his nose, which was bleeding."I tried to plow up these bushes with my head, that's all.I guess
my ankle is sprained, too.""You can't ride that wheel any further," announced Sam.I've had enough, for a few days at least."It was a good quarter of an hour before Tom felt like standing up.Then he found his ankle pained him so much that walking was out of
the question."I'm sure I don't know what I am going to do," he said ruefully."I can't walk and I can't ride, and I don't know as I can stay
here.""Perhaps Dick and I can carry you to Hopeton," said Sam,
mentioning a small town just beyond the railroad tracks.Perhaps the
driver of that will give me a lift."As Tom finished a large farm wagon rattled into sight, drawn by a
pair of bony horses and driven by a tall, lank farmer."Hullo, wot's the matter?"asked the farmer, as he drew rein."No, I've had a smash-up," answered Tom."My brother's ankle is sprained, and we would like to know if you
can give him a lift to the next town," put in Dick."We'll pay you
for your trouble.""That's all right--Seth Dickerson is allers ready to aid a
fellow-bein' in distress," answered the farmer."Can ye git in
the wagon alone?"Tom could not, and the farmer and Dick carried him forward and
placed him on the seat.Then the damaged bicycle was placed in
the rear of the turnout, and Seth Dickerson drove off, while Sam
and Dick followed on their steeds of steel."I see you air dressed in cadet uniforms," remarked the farmer, as
the party proceeded on its way."Be you fellers from Pornell
school?""No; we come from Putnam Hall," answered Tom."Oh, yes--'bout the same thing, I take it.How is matters up to
the school--larnin' a heap?""We are trying to learn all we have to.""Had some trouble up thar, didn't ye?My wife's brother was
a-tellin' me about it.A darkey stole some money an' watches, an'
that like.""They think he stole them," said Tom."Why don't Captain Putnam hunt around them air pawnshops fer the
watches?"went on Seth Dickerson, after a pause."The thief would most likely pawn 'em, to my way of thinkin'.""He hasn't much of a chance to do that.But I presume the police
will keep their eyes open.""I was over to Auburn yesterday--had to go to see about a
mortgage on our farm--and I stopped into one of them pawnbrokin'
shops to buy a shot-gun, if I could git one cheap.While I was in
there a big boy came in and pawned a gold watch an' two shirt
studs.""Is that so," returned Tom, with much interest."What kind of a
looking boy was it?""A tall, slim feller, with reddish hair.He had sech shifty eyes
I couldn't help but think that maybe he had stolen them things
jest to raise some spending money.""He said Jack Smith, but I don't think thet vas correct, for he
hesitated afore he gave it.""A tall, slim fellow, with reddish hair and shifty eyes," mused
Tom."He had on a rough suit of brownish-green and a derby hat with a
hole knocked in one side.""That description fits one of our students exactly.""What's up, Tom; do you feel worse?"asked Dick, as he wheeled as
closely to the seat of the wagon as possible.But I've made a big discovery--at least, I
feel pretty certain that I have?""I've discovered who stole that money and other stuff."CHAPTER X

A STRANGE MESSAGE FROM THE SEA


"Jim Caven!"repeated Dick slowly, "What makes you believe that he
is guilty?"Dickerson here says," answered Tom, and repeated
what the farmer had told him."Gracious, that does look black for Caven!""Would you recognize that boy
again if you saw him?"His eyes was wot got me--never saw
sech unsteady ones afore in my life.""Yes, those eyes put me down on Caven the minute I saw him,"
answered Tom."More than half of the boys at the Hall have put
him down as a first-class sneak, although we can't exactly tell
why.""I think it would be best if Mr.Dickerson
would drive back to the Hall with us and tell Captain Putnam of
what he knows.""And see if he can identify Caven," finished Sam."Are you
willing to do that, Mr."Well, to tell the truth, I've got some business to attend to
now," was the slow reply."I am sure Captain Putnam will pay you for your trouble," went on
Sam."You seem mighty anxious to bring this Caven to justice,"  smiled
the farmer."We are, for two reasons," said Tom."The first is, because he
isn't the nice sort to have around, and the second is, because one
of the men working at the school, a  waiter, whom we all
liked, has been suspected of this crime and had to run away to
avoid arrest."Well--"  The farmer mused for a moment."All right, I'll
go back with ye--and at once."The team was turned around as well as the narrow confines of the
hilly road permitted, and soon the Rover boys were on their way
back to Putnam Hall, a proceeding which pleased Tom in more ways
than one, since he would not have now to put up at a strange
resort to have his ankle and his wheel cared for.They bowled
along at a rapid gait, the horses having more speed in them than
their appearance indicated.They were just turning into the road
leading to Putnam Hall grounds when Dick espied several cadets
approaching, bound for the lake shore."Here come Caven, Willets, and several others!"Dickerson, do you recognize any of those boys?"The farmer gave a searching glance, which lasted until the
approaching cadets were beside the wagon.Then he pointed his
hand at Jim Caven."Thet's the boy I seed over to Auburn, a-pawning thet watch an'
them studs," he announced."He's got his sodger uniform on, but I
know him jest the same."Jim Caven looked at the farmer in astonishment.Then when he
heard Seth Dickerson's words he fell back and his face grew
deathly white."I--I don't know you," he stammered."I seed you over to Auburn, in a pawnshop," repeated Dickerson."I was never over to Auburn
in my life.Why should I go there to a pawnshop?""I guess you know well enough, Caven," said Tom."You bad better
come back to the Hall with us and have a talk with Captain
Putnam."This is--is a--a plot against me,"
stammered the slim youth.cried Dick, and caught Caven by the arm.But
with a jerk the seared boy freed himself and ran down the road at
the top of his speed.Sam and Dick pursued him on their bicycles, while some of the
others came after on foot.Seeing this, Jim Caven took to the
woods just as Dan Baxter had done, and the boys found it
impossible to track him any further."I wonder if he'll come back tonight?"said Dick, as the party
returned to where they had left Seth Dickerson and Tom."I don't think he will," answered Sam."I declare, he must be
almost as bad as the Baxters!"The farm wagon soon reached the Hall, and Dick ushered Seth
Dickerson into Captain Putnam's office.The captain looked
surprised at the unexpected visitor, but listened with deep
concern to all the farmer and the Rover boys had to say."This certainly looks black for Caven," he said at last."I did
not think I had such a bad boy here.And you say he got away from
you?""It is a question if he will come back--providing he is really
guilty.I will have his trunk and bag searched without delay.But if he is guilty how did that ruby stud and the watch come into
Alexander Pop's possession?""He was down on Aleck," replied Tom, who had hobbled in after the
others."And, besides, he thought if Aleck was arrested the
search for the criminal would go no further."It is a sad state of affairs at
the best."The party ascended to the dormitory which Jim Caven occupied with
several smaller boy.His trunk was found locked, but Captain Putnam
took upon himself the responsibility of hunting up a key to fit the
box.Once open the trunk was found to contain, among other things,
a bit of heavy cloth tied with a piece of strong cord.cried the captain, as he undid the
package and brought to light several of the missing watches and
also some of the jewelry."I guess it is a clear case against
Caven, and Pop is innocent.""I wish we could tell Pop of it," put in Dick."I will do what I can for the <DW64>, Rover.I am very sorry
indeed, now, that I suspected him," said Captain Putnam, with a
slow shake of his head.At the bottom of the trunk was a pocketbook containing nearly all
of the money which had been stolen.A footing-up revealed the
fact that two watches and three gold shirt studs were still
missing."And those were pawned in Auburn," said Sam."Just wait and see
if I am not right."A party was organized to hunt for Caven, and the captain himself
went to Auburn that very evening.The hunt for the missing boy
proved unsuccessful, and it may be added here that he never turned
up at Putnam Hall again nor at his home in Middletown, having run
away to the West.When Captain Putnam came back he announced that he had recovered
all but one watch.The various goods and the money were distributed
among their rightful owners, and it must be confessed that a big
sigh of relief went up from the cadets who had suffered.The
single missing timepiece was made good to the boy who had lost it,
by the captain buying a similar watch for the youth.After this several weeks passed without anything of special
interest occurring outside of a stirring baseball match with a
club from Ithaca, which Putnam Hall won by a score of six to
three.In this game Dick made a much-needed home run, thus
covering himself with glory."And they hang together like links of a chain," added Fred."The
friend of one is the friend of all, and the same can be said of an
enemy."One morning a telegraph messenger from Cedarville was seen
approaching the Hall, just as the boys were forming for the
roll-call."Here's a telegram for somebody," said Sam."A message for Richard Rover," announced George Strong, after
receiving it, and handed over the yellow envelope.Wondering what the message could contain and who had sent it, Dick
tore open the envelope and read the brief communication.As his
eyes met the words his head seemed to swim around, so bewildered
was he by what was written there.He
says--but read it for yourselves," and the elder Rover handed
over the message, which ran as follows:

"Have just received a strange message from the sea, supposed to be
written by your father."Oh, I pray Heaven the news
is true!""A strange message from the sea," repeated Dick."Perhaps it's a message that was picked up by some steamer,"
suggested Sam."Anyway, uncle wants us to come home at once.""But of course he wanted all of us to come," put in Tom."Anyway,
four horses couldn't hold me back!""If we hurry up
we can catch the noon boat at Cedarville for Ithaca.""Yes, and the evening train for Oak Run," finished Tom.To tell the truth, that message had fired him
as he had never been fired before.He burst into the captain's
office pell-mell, with Tom and Sam on his heels, to explain the
situation.Ten minutes later--and even this time seemed an age
to the brothers--they were hurrying into their ordinary clothing
and packing, their satchels, while Peleg Snuggers was hitching up
to take them to the landing at Cedarville."Good-by to you, and good luck!"shouted Frank, as they clambered
into the wagon, and many other cadets set up a shout.The Rover boys had turned their backs on dear
old Putnam Hall for a long while to come.CHAPTER XI

THE ROVERS REACH A CONCLUSION


For the three Rover boys the Golden Star could not make the trip
from Cedarville to Ithaca fast enough.They fretted over every
delay, and continually wondered if there was any likelihood of
their missing the train which was to take them to Oak Run, the
nearest railroad station to Valley Brook farm, their uncle's home.But the train was not missed; instead, they had to wait half an
hour for it.During this time they procured dinner, although Dick
felt so strange he could scarcely eat a mouthful."Uncle Randolph doesn't say much," he murmured to Tom."We'll know everything before we go to bed, Dick," answered his
brother."I don't believe Uncle Randolph would telegraph unless
the news was good."They indulged in all sorts of speculation, as the train sped on
its way to Oak Run.When the latter place was reached it was
dark, and they found Jack Ness, the hired man, waiting for them
with the carriage."There, I  knowed it," grinned Jack.Rover calculated that
only Dick would come, but I said we'd have 'em all.""And what is this news of my father?""It's a message as was picked up off the coast of Africky,"
replied Ness.Rover didn't explain very clearly to me.He's
a good deal excited, and so is the missus.""Can it be that father is on his
way home?"Leas'wise, your uncle didn't say
so," concluded the hired man.Never had the horses made better time than they did now, and yet
the boys urged Ness continually to drive faster.Swift River was
soon crossed--that stream where Sam had once had such a stirring
adventure--and they bowled along past the Fox and other farms."There is Uncle Randolph out on the porch to greet us!""I do believe they look
happy, don't you, Tom?""They certainly don't look sad," was the noncommittal answer; and
then the carriage swept up to the horse-block and the three boys
alighted."Well,
perhaps it is just as well so.""We simply couldn't stay behind, uncle,"  said Sam."And we are
dying to know what it all means.""But you must have supper first," put in Aunt Martha, as she gave
one and another a motherly kiss."I know riding on the cars
usually makes Tom tremendously hungry.""Well eat after we have had the news," said Tom."We're dying to
know all, as Sam says.""The news is rather perplexing, to tell the truth," said Randolph
Rover, as he led the way into the library of the spacious home."I hardly know what to make of it.""It came by mail--a bulky letter all the way from Cape Town,
Africa.""No, from a Captain Townsend, who, it seems, commands the clipper
ship Rosabel.came in a shout from all three of the Rover
boys."You had better read the captain's communication first," answered
Randolph Rover."Then you will be more apt to understand the
other.Or shall I read it for the benefit of all?""Yes, yes, you read it, Uncle Randolph," was the answer."The letter is dated at Cape Town, and was written a little over a
month ago.It is addressed to 'Randolph Rover, or to Richard,
Thomas, or Samuel Rover, New York City,' and is further marked
'Highly Important-Do Not Lose or Destroy.'""Do hurry and tell
us, Uncle Randolph."And then his uncle read as follows:

"TO THE ROVER FAMILY, New York:

"I am a stranger to you, but I deem it my duty to write to you on
account of something which occurred on the 12th day of April last,
while my clipper ship Rosabel, bound from Boston, U. S. A., to
Cape Town, Africa, was sailing along the coast of Congo but a few
miles due west from the mouth of the Congo River."Our ship had been sent in by a heavy gale but the wind had gone
down, and we were doing more drifting than sailing to the
southward when the lookout espied a man on a small raft which was
drifting toward us."On coming closer, we discovered that the man was white and that
he looked half starved.We put out a boat and rescued the poor
creature  but he had suffered so much from spear wounds and
starvation that, on being taken on board of our ship, he
immediately relapsed into insensibility, and out of this we failed
to arouse him.He died at sundown, and we failed, even to learn
him name or home address."On searching the dead man's pockets we came across the enclosed
letter, addressed to you, and much soiled from water.As you will
see, it is dated more than a year back and was evidently in the
possession of the man who died for some time.Probably he started
out to deliver it, or to reach some point from which it could be
mailed."I trust that the message becomes the means of rescuing the
Anderson Rover mentioned in the letter, and I will be pleased to
learn if this letter of mine is received.The Rosabel sails from
Cape Town to Brazil as soon as her cargo can be discharged and
another taken on."Very truly yours,

"JOHN V. TOWNSEND, Captain."As Randolph Rover ceased reading there was a brief silence, broken
by Tom."So the man who died held a letter.And what is in that, Uncle
Randolph?""I will read it to you, boys, although that is a difficult matter,
for the writing is uneven and much blurred.On one part of the
sheet there is a blot of blood--the blood, I presume--of the
poor fellow who was trying to deliver the communication."Unfolding the stained document, Randolph Rover bent closer to the
table lamp that he might read the more easily.As for the boys,
they fairly held their breaths, that no spoken word might escape
them."The letter is addressed to me," said the uncle."But the
envelope is, as you can see, very much torn.I will read," and he
did so."NIWILI CAMP, on the Congo,

"July the 18th, 189--."DEAR BROTHER RANDOLPH:

"If, by the goodness of God, this reaches you, I trust that you
will set out without delay to my assistance."I write under great difficulties, as a prisoner, of the Bumwo
tribe of natives, ruled by King Susko."I have discovered the secret of a gold mine here, and the king
will not let me go, fearing that I will tell the outside world of
my discovery and bring the English or French here to slay him and
his followers."I entrust this to the care of an English sailor who is going to
try to make his escape.I cannot go myself, having had my leg
broken by a blow from one of my jailers."I am sick and weak in body, and it may be that I will soon die.Yet I beg of you to do what you can for me.If I die, I trust you
to be a father to my dear boys, Dick, Tom, and Sam, and ask Martha
for me to be a mother to them."The king expects soon to remove to another camp at a place called
Rhunda Konoka (the Water Well).Perhaps he will take me along, or
else he may slay me."All those who were with me are dead excepting several natives who
have joined the Burnwo tribe."Good-by, and do what you can until you are certain that I am
dead."Your loving brother,

"ANDERSON ROVER"

When Randolph Rover ceased reading he saw that there were tears in
the eyes of all of the boys, and that his wife was also crying.His own voice had had to be cleared continually.To all the
letter was like a message from the grave."That is all, my boy--and the letter was written about a year
ago!""But we'll go in search of him!""I thought I would go," answered Randolph Rover, "and I thought,
possibly, that I might take Dick with me.""I could never bear to
be left behind.""And you must take me," interrupted Sam."We always go together,
you know."At this talk Randolph Rover was somewhat taken aback."Why, what would three boys do in the heart of Africa?""I shan't stay behind--you can't
make me!""We have been through lots of adventures, uncle, you know that,"
came from Sam."But the danger, boys--" began the uncle."What danger wouldn't we face for father's sake!""I'd
go through fire and water for him.""You had better let us all go," said Dick."If you don't let Tom and Sam go, why, the chances are they'll--"

"Run away and go anyway," finished Sam."Oh, Uncle Randolph, say we can go; please do!""All-right, boys; as you are bound to have it so, you shall all
go.But don't blame me if the perils are greater than you
anticipate, and if the undertaking costs one or more of you your
lives."OFF FOR AFRICA


It was long after midnight before the conversation in relation to
the proposed trip to Africa came to an end.Rover insisted
that the boys should eat something, and they sat around the table
discussing the viands and the two letters at the same time."Have you any idea where this Niwili Camp is?""It is on the Congo, but how far froth the mouth of that stream is
a question, lad.Probably we can learn all about it when we reach
Boma, the capital of the Congo Free State.""The Congo is a pretty big stream, isn't it?"At its mouth it is about ten miles wide, and
it is from twelve to fourteen hundred miles long.Stanley traced
its course after an expedition in which he fought over thirty
battles with the natives."The natives that live close to the
ocean are peaceable enough, so I have been told.""And how are we going to get there?""I don't suppose
there are any regular steamers running to the Congo."I have written to a shipping firm in New York
for information, and they will probably send word by morning," was
the answer.It can well be imagined that the boys slept but little that night.In the morning they telegraphed to Putnam Hall for their trunks,
and also let Captain Putnam and their chums know how matters
stood.Then began preparations for such a tour as none of them
had ever before anticipated.Word came from New York in the early afternoon mail, and the
information sent was highly satisfactory to Randolph Rover.The
French steamer Republique was in port, loading for Boma and other
African ports, and would set sail on the coming Saturday.The
firm had taken upon itself the responsibility to speak of passage
for Mr."Uncle Randolph, you had better telegraph to
them at once for passage for the four of us."Rover, and the telegram was sent within
the hour.As but little in the way of outfits
could be procured in Oak Run or the adjoining villages, it was
decided that they should go down to New York on Thursday afternoon
and spend all of Friday in purchasing in the metropolis whatever
was needed.The only person who was really sober was Mrs.Rover, for she hated
to see her husband start on such a journey, which was bound to, be
full of grave perils."I am afraid you will never come back," she said, with tears in
her eyes."And if you and Anderson are both dead to me, what will
I do?""I feel certain that
a kind Providence will watch over us and bring us all back in
safety."At last the party was ready to set off.A fond good-by was said,
and away they rattled in the carryall for the railroad station at
Oak Run.shouted Tom, as he waved his cap to his aunt,
who stood beside the gateway."And when we come back may we bring father with us," added Dick,
and Sam muttered an amen.The journey down to New York was without incident, and as the
Rovers had lived in the metropolis for years they felt thoroughly
at home and knew exactly where to go for their outfit and suitable
clothing for use in such a warm country was procured, and in
addition each was armed with a revolver.Rover also purchased
a shot-gun and a rifle, and likewise a number of cheap gold and
silver trinkets."The natives are becoming civilized," he explained."But, for all
that, I am certain a small gift now and then will go a long way
toward making friends."The found that the Republique was a stanch-built steamer of eight
thousand tons burden.Her captain, Jules Cambion, spoke English
quite fluently and soon made them feel at home.He was much
interested in the story Randolph Rover had to tell concerning his
missing brother."'Tis a strange happening, truly," he remarked."I sincerely
trust that your search for him proves successful and that he
returns to the arms of his family unharmed.I have visited it twice, and I know.""I am glad to learn that you have been up the Congo," replied
Randolph Rover."Perhaps during your leisure hours on the trip
you will not mind giving me such information as conics to your
mind.""I will tell you all I know willingly," answered Captain Cambion.Exactly at noon on Saturday the Republique was ready to sail, and
with a shout from those on the wharf who had come to see the few
passengers off, she sheered away and started down the bay, past
Bedloe Island and the Statue of Liberty.Before night the shore
line had faded from view, and they were standing out boldly into
the Atlantic Ocean."Off for Africa at last," murmured Sam, who had been standing at
the rail watching the last speck of land as it disappeared."What
a big trip this is going to be!""Never mind how big it is, Sam," came from Tom,  "if only it is
successful."The first few days on board were spent in settling themselves.The party had two connecting staterooms, and Mr.Rover and Sam
occupied one, while Dick and Tom had settled themselves in the
other.The passengers were mostly French people, who were going to try
their fortunes in French Congo.There was, however, one
Englishman, a man named Mortimer Blaze, who was bound out simply
for adventure."I'm tired of England, and tired of America too," he explained."I've hunted through the Rocky Mountains and up in Canada, as well
as at home, and now I'm going to try for a lion or a tiger in
Africa.""Perhaps the lion or tiger will try for you," smiled Tom."It will be a pitched battle, that's all," drawled Mortimer Blaze.He was rather a sleepy looking man, but quick to act when the
occasion demanded.The weather was all that could be wished, and during the first
week out the Republique made good progress.On a steamer there
was but little for the boys to do, and they spent all of their
spare time in reading the books on Africa which Captain Cambion
had in his library, and which were printed in English.Often they
persuaded the genial captain to tell them of his adventures in
that far-away country."You have many strange sights before you," he said to them one
day."The strange vegetation, the immense trees, the wonderful
waterfalls, some larger than your own Niagara, and then the odd
people.Some of the natives are little better than dwarfs, while
others are six feet and more in height and as straight as arrows."Did you ever hear of this King Susko?""Yes; I have heard of him several times.He is known as the
Wanderer, because he and his tribe wander from place to place,
making war on the other tribes."The captain knew nothing of Niwili Camp and expressed the opinion
that it had been, like many other camps, only a temporary affair.He said that the best the party could do was to strike straight up
the Congo, along the south shore, and question the different
natives met concerning King Susko's present whereabouts.On the beginning of the second week a storm was encountered which
lasted for three days.At first the wind blew at a lively rate,
and this was followed by thunder and lightning and a regular
deluge of rain, which made all of the boys stay below.The
steamer pitched from side to side and more than one wave broke
over her decks."This is the worse storm I ever saw," remarked Dick, as he held
fast to a chair in the cabin."They won't be able to set any
table for dinner today."came from Sam, with a groan."Who wants any dinner, when a fellow feels as if he was going to
be turned inside out!"So far none of the boys had suffered from
seasickness, but now poor Sam was catching it, and the youngest
Rover felt thoroughly miserable."Never mind, the storm won't last forever," said Dick
sympathetically."Perhaps you had better lie down, Sam.""How can I, with the ship tossing like a cork?I've got to hold
on, same as the rest, and be glad, I suppose, that I am alive,"
and poor Sam looked utterly miserable.It was very close in the cabin, but neither door nor port-hole
could be opened for fear of the water coming in.Dinner was a
farce, to use Tom's way of expressing it, for everything was cold
and had to be eaten out of hand or from a tin cup.Yet what was
served tasted very good to those who were hungry."I believe we'll go to the bottom before we are done," began Sam,
when a loud shout from the deck reached the ears of all of the
Rovers and made Tom and Dick leap to their feet.Above the wind they could hear a yell from a distance, and then
came more cries from the deck, followed by a bump on the side of
the steamer."But I guess it wasn't hard enough to do much damage.""That remains to be seen," answered Dick."Storm or no storm, I'm
gong on deck to learn what it means," and he hurried up the
companionway.CHAPTER XIII

A RESCUE IN MID-OCEAN


Dick found that he could remain on the deck only with the greatest
of difficulty.Several life lines had been stretched around and
he clung to one of these."Struck a small boat," was the answer."It had a <DW52> man in
it.But the captain thinks he may get over
it, with care," and the sailor hurried away.Dick now saw several men approaching, carrying the form of the
rescued one between them.He looked at the unconscious man and
gave a cry of amazement."I know him very well," answered Dick."He used to work at the
military academy where my brothers and I were cadets."And the
boy told Captain Cambion the particulars of Alexander Pop's
disappearance from Putnam Hall."I am glad that I will be able to
tell him that his innocence is established," he concluded."All providing we are able to bring him around to himself, Master
Rover," returned the captain gravely."You think, then, that he is in bad shape?"We will take him below and do all
we can for him."It was no easy matter to transfer Pop to one of the lower
staterooms, but once placed on a soft berth the Rovers did all
they could for him."It is like a romance," said Sam, while Randolph Rover was
administering some medicine to the unconscious man."He's been suffering from starvation," put in Dick."I suppose he
gave that yell we heard with his last breath."All of the party watched over the <DW52> man with tender care,
and feeling that he could be in no better hands the captain left
him entirely in his friends' charge."When he comes to his senses
you can let me know," he said.Dick was watching by Pop's side, and Tom was at the foot of the
berth, when the <DW52> man opened his eyes.As they rested on
first one Rover and then the other he stared in utter astonishment."Am I dreamin', or am I
back to Putnam Hall again?""You are safe on board an ocean
steamer.""An' yo'--whar yo' dun come from?""We are passengers on the steamer," said Tom."You were picked up
several hours ago.""Yes, but--but I can't undersand dis nohow!"persisted the
<DW52> man, and tried to sit up, only to fall back exhausted."Don't try to understand it, Aleck, until you are stronger," said
Dick."Anyt'ing, sah, anyt'ing!Why, I aint had, no reg'lar meal in
most a week!""Glory to Heaben dat I am
sabed!"And then he said no more for quite a long, while.The soup was already at hand, and it was Dick who fed it slowly
and carefully, seeing to it that Pop should have no more than his
enfeebled stomach could take care of, for overfeeding, so Mr.Rover had said, might kill the man.The next day Pop was able to sit up, although still too weak to
stand on his legs.He was continually praising Heaven for his
safety."I dun Vink I was a goner more dan once," he said."I was on de
ocean all alone about a week, I reckon, although I lost time ob
days after I'd been out two or Vree nights."Perhaps you were, Aleck," said Sam."But tell us how you got in
that position.""Dat am de queerest part ob it, Master Rober--de queerest part
of it.I got into de small boat fo' a sleep, and de fust Ving I
knowed I was miles an' miles away from eberyt'ing; yes, sah-miles
an' miles away on de boundless ocean, an' not so much as a fishin'
smack sail in sight.Golly, but wasn't I scared--I reckon I dun
most turn white!"And Aleck rolled his eyes around impressively."You were in a small boat attached to some steamer?"Da had been usin' de small boat fo' surnt'ing, and
left her overboard.""I don't tink I was--but I aint shuah nohow.""De Harrison, from Brooklyn, bound to Cuba.""Did you ship on her after you left Putnam Hall in such a hurry?"I did, cos I didn't want de police to coted me.But, say, as
true as I stand heah--mean sit heah--I aint guilty of stealin'
dem watches an' t'ings, no I aint!""Captain Putnam made a
great mistake when he dun suspect me.""We thought you innocent all
along, Aleck.""T'ank yo' fo' dat, Master Rober--I'se glad to see dat I'se got
one friend--"

"Three friends, Aleck--we all stood up for you," interrupted
Tom."T'ank yo', t'ank yo'!""And we discovered who the real thief was," added Sam."Wot, yo' dun found, dat out!""An' who was de
black-hearted rascal?""Dat cadet wot tried to be funny wid me an' I had to show him his
place?Hol' on--I dun see him comin' from de attic one day.""When he must have put those stolen articles in your trunk," said
Tom."Yes, he was guilty, Captain Putnam was going to have him
arrested, but he got away."Nothing would do for Alexander Pop after this but that the boys
give him the full particulars of the affair, to which he listened
with the closest attention."Ise mighty glad I am cleared," he said."But I'd give a good
deal to face de cap'n--jest to see wot he would say, eh?""He said he was sorry he had suspected you," said Dick."What a big fool dis darkey was to run away!""I wasn't cut out fo' no sailer man.Ise been sick
most ebery day since I left shoah.By de way, whar is dis ship
bound?"Shuah yo' is foolin', Massah Dick?"We and our uncle are bound for the Congo River."Dat's whar my great gran' fadder dun come from--so I
heard my mammy tell, years ago.I don't want to go dar, not me!""I don't see how you are going to help yourself, Aleck.The first
stop this steamer will make will be at Boma on the Congo River.""'Wot am I to do when I gits dar?Perhaps the captain will let you remain
on the Republique."I don't t'ink I could stand dat.An'
what am yo' going to do in Africa?""We are going on a hunt for my father, who has been missing for
years."Again Aleck had to be told the particulars and again he was
tremendously interested.When the boys had finished he sat in
silence for several minutes."I've got it-jest de t'ing!"Foah gen'men like yo' don't want to
go to Africa widout a valet nohow.Let me be de workin' man fe de
crowd.I'll take de job, cheap,--an' glad ob de chance.""Hullo, that's an idea!""Will yo' do it, Massah Dick?""We'll have to speak to my uncle about it first.""Well, yo' put in a good word fo' me.Yo know I always stood by
yo' in de school," pleaded the <DW52> man."I don't want to be
driftin' around jess nowhar, wid nuffin to do, an' no money comin'
in--not but what I'll work cheap, as I dun said I would," he
added hastily.A little later Randolph Rover joined the group and Aleck's
proposition was laid before him.Strange to say he accepted the
<DW52> man's offer immediately, greatly to the wonder of the
boys, and from that minute on Pop be came a member of the
searching party."I will tell you why I did it," explained Randolph Rover to the
boys in private."When we get into the jungle we will need a man
we can trust and one who is used to American ways.Moreover, if
there is any spying to be done among the natives the chances are
that a black man can do it better than a white man.""Uncle Randolph, you've got a long head," remarked Tom."No doubt
Aleck will prove just the fellow desired."And Tom was right, as
later events proved.CHAPTER XIV

A STRANGE MEETING IN BOMA


The storm delayed the passage of the Republique nearly a week, in
a manner that was totally unexpected by the captain.The fierce
waves, running mountain high, wrenched the screw and it was found
next to impossible to repair the accident.Consequently the
steamer had to proceed under a decreased rate of speed.This was tantalizing to the boys, and also to Randolph Rover, for
everyone wished to get ashore, to start up the Congo as early as
possible.But all the chafing in the world could not help
matters, and they were forced to take things as they came.A place was found among the sailors for Aleck, and soon he began
to feel like himself once more.But the sea did not suit the
<DW52> man, and he was as anxious as his masters to reach shore
once more."It's a pity da can't build a mighty bridge over de ocean, an' run
kyars," he said."Perhaps they'll have a bridge some day resting on boats, Aleck,"
answered Tom."But I don't expect to live to see it.""Yo' don't know about dat, chile.Did
yo'gran'fadder expect to ride at de rate ob sixty miles an hour?Did he expect to send a telegram to San Francisco in a couple ob
minutes?Did he eber dream ob talkin' to sumboddy in Chicago froo
a telephone?Did he knew anyt'ing about electric lights, or
movin' pictures, or carriages wot aint got no bosses, but run wid
gasoline or sumfing like dat?I tell yo, Massah Tom, we don't
know wot we is comin' to!""You are quite right, Alexander," said Mr.Rover, who had
overheard the talk.Some
day I expect to grow com and wheat, yes, potatoes and other
vegetables, by electricity," and then Randolph Rover branched off
into a long discourse on scientific farming that almost took away
poor Aleck's breath."He's a most wonderful man, yo' uncle!"whispered the <DW52> man
to Sam afterward."Fust t'ing yo' know he'll be growin' corn in
de com crib already shucked!"On and on over the mighty Atlantic bounded the steamer.One day
was very much like another, excepting that on Sundays there was a
religious service, which nearly everybody attended.The boys had
become quite attached to Mortimer Blaze and listened eagerly to
the many hunting tales he had to tell."I wish you were going with us," said Tom to him."I like your
style, as you Englishman put it.""Thanks, Rover, and I must say I cotton to you, as the Americans
put it," laughed the hunter."Well, perhaps we'll meet in the
interior, who knows?"I am hoping to meet some friends at Boma.The steamer bad now struck the equator, and as it was midsummer
the weather was extremely warm, and the smell of the oozing tar,
pouring from every joint, was sickening."Dis am jest right," he said."I could sleep eall de time,
'ceptin' when de meal gong rings.""When you land,
Alexander, you ought to feel perfectly at home.""Perhaps, sah; but I dun reckon de United States am good enough
for any man, sah, white or.""It's the greatest country on the
globe."It was a clear day a week later when the lookout announced land
dead ahead.It proved to be a point fifteen miles above the mouth
of the Congo, and at once the course was altered to the southward,
and they made the immense mouth of the river before nightfall.Far away dashed the waves against an
immense golden strand, backed up by gigantic forests of tropical
growth and distant mountains veiled in a bluish mist: The river
was so broad that they were scarcely aware that they were entering
its mouth until the captain told them.When night came the lights of Boma could be distinctly seen,
twinkling silently over the bay of the town.They dropped anchor
among a score of other vessels; and the long ocean trip became a
thing of the past."I'm all ready to go ashore," said Tom."My, but won't it feel good to put foot on land again!""The ocean is all well enough, but
a fellow doesn't want too much of it.""And yet I heard one of the French sailors say that he hated the
land," put in Sam."He hadn't set foot on shore for three years.When they reach port he always remains on deck duty until they
leave again."Mortimer Blaze went ashore at once, after bidding all of the party
a hearty good-by."And, anyway,
good luck to you!""Hope you bag all of the lions
and tigers you wish," and so they parted, not to meet again for
many a day.It was decided that the Rovers should not leave the ship until
morning.It can well be imagined that none of the boys slept
soundly that night.All wondered what was before them, and if
they should succeed or fail in their hunt."Dis aint much ob a town," remarked Aleck, as they landed, a
little before noon, in a hot, gentle shower of rain."There is only one New York, as there is but one London," answered
Randolph Rover."Our architecture would never do for such a hot
climate."Along the river front was a long line of squatty warehouses,
backed up by narrow and far from clean streets, where the places
of business were huddled together, and where a good share of the
trading was done on the sidewalk.The population was a very much
mixed one, but of the Europeans the English and French
predominated.The natives were short, fat, and exceedingly greasy
appearing.Hardly a one of them could speak English."I don't see any Americans," remarked Dick."I suppose--"

"There is an American store!"burst out Sam, pointing across the
way.He had discovered a general trading store, the dilapidated
sign of which read:

          SIMON HOOK,

       Dealer in Everything."I'd like to go in
and see Simon Hook.Rover was willing, and they entered the low and dingy-looking
establishment, which was filled with boxes, barrels, and bags of
goods.They found the proprietor sitting in an easy chair, his feet on a
desk, and a pipe in his mouth."That's me," was the answer; but Mr.Hook did not offer to rise,
nor indeed to even shift his position."We saw your sign and as we are Americans we thought we would drop
in," went on Mr."That's right; glad to see you," came from the man in the chair;
but still he did not offer to shift his position."It's a fool's place to come to, sonny.When these goods are sold
I'm going to quit."Simon Hook paused long enough to take an
extra whiff from his pipe."We are on a hunt for a missing man," answered Randolph Rover.His name is Anderson Rover, and he is my
brother."He was a gold hunter from Californy, or somethin' like that.""Went up the Congo four or five years ago--maybe longer?"He had lots of money, and took several guides
and a number of other, natives along.""Have you seen or heard of him since?""Because them as goes up the Congo never, comes back.It's a
fool's trip among those wild people of the interior.Stanley went
up, but look at the big party he took with him and the many fights
he had to get back alive."At this announcement the hearts of the Rover boys fell.I reckon he's either lost in the jungle or
among the mountains, or else the natives have taken care of him.""Did he say anything about the trail he was going to take?""He was going to take the Rumbobo trail, most all of 'em do.""Say, can I sell you any of these
old things of mine cheap?""Glad to see you," and as they left the shopkeeper waved them a
pleasant adieu with his hand."I guess he has grown tired of trying to sell goods," observed
Tom."Perhaps he knows that if folks want the things he has to sell
they are bound to come to him," said Dick."His store seems to
be the only one of its sort around."The hotel for which they were bound was several squares away,
located in something of a park, with pretty flowers and a
fountain.It was a two-story affair, with spacious verandas and
large rooms, and frequented mostly by English and French people.They had just entered the office; and Randolph Rover was writing
his name in the register, when Dick caught sight of somebody in
the reading room that nearly took away his breath.It is Dan Baxter--Dan
Baxter, just as sure as you are born!"CHAPTER XV

CAPTAIN VILLAIRE'S LITTLE PLOT


Dick was right: the boy in the reading-room' was indeed Dan Baxter,
but so changed in appearance that for the minute neither Tom nor
Sam recognized him.In the past Baxter had always been used to fine clothing, which he
had taken care should be in good repair.Now his clothing was
dilapidated and his shoes looked as if they were about ready to
fall apart.More than this, his face was hollow and careworn, and one eye
looked as if it had suffered severe blow of some sort.Altogether
he was most wretched-looking specimen of humanity, and it was a
wonder that he was allowed at the hotel.But the truth of the
matter was that he had told the proprietor a long tale of
sufferings in the interior and of a delayed remittance from home,
and the hotel keeper was keeping him solely on this account."He looks like a regular
tramp!""He's been in hard luck, that's certain," came from Sam."I
wonder how he drifted out here?"While Sam was speaking Dan Baxter raised his eyes from the
newspaper and glanced around.As his gaze fell upon the three
Rover boys he started and the paper fell to the floor, then he got
up and strode toward them."From Putnam Hall, Baxter," answered Dick quietly.Ordinarily Dan Baxter would have retorted that that was none of
Dick's business, but now he was in thoroughly low spirits, and he
answered meekly:

"I've been playing in hard luck.I went down to New York and one
night when I was in a sailors' boarding house I drank more than
was good for me, and when I woke up in the morning I found myself
on a vessel bound for Africa.""You were shanghaied as a sailor?""That's it, and while I was on board the Costelk the captain and
mate treated me worse than a dog.The captain did
that, and when I struck back he put me in irons and fed me nothing
but stale biscuits and water.""No; she was bound for Cape Town, but stopped here for supplies,
and I jumped overboard at night and swam ashore, and here I am,
and sorry for it," and Dan Baxter drew a long breath.The Rovers were astonished at his meek manner.Was this really
the domineering Baxter, who had always insisted on having his own
way, and who had done so many wrong deeds in the past?"You've had a hard time of it, I suppose?said Dick, hardly
knowing how to go on."Hard, Dick, aint no word," came from the former bully of Putnam
Hall."I've run up against the worst luck that anybody could ever
imagine.But I reckon you don't care about that?""Do you think we ought to care, Baxter?""Well, it aint fair to take advantage of a chap when he's down on
his luck," grumbled the former bully."I guess I've learnt my
lesson all right enough.""Do you mean to say you are going to turn over a new leaf?""Yes, if I ever get the chance."Randolph Rover now joined the group, and Dick explained the
situation.Rover questioned Baxter closely and found that he
was without a cent in his pocket and that the hotel keeper had
threatened to put him out if he was not able to pay up inside of
the next twenty-four hours."See here, Baxter, you never were my friend, and you never
deserved any good from me, but I don't like to see a dog suffer,"
said Dick."I'll give you thirty shillings, and that will help
you along a little," and he drew out his purse."And I'll give you the same," came from Tom."But don't forget that what Dick says
is true, nevertheless."Ninety English shillings--about twenty-two dollars of our money--was
more cash than Dan Baxter had seen in some time, his other
money having been spent before he had taken his unexpected ocean
trip, and his eyes brightened up wonderfully."I'll be much obliged to you for the--the loan," he stammered."I'll pay you back some time, remember.""My advice to you is, to take the first ship you can for home.""And what brought you out here--going on a hunt for your
father?""You'll have a big job finding him.I understand the natives of
the Congo are going on the warpath before long.They have had
some difficulty with the settlers.""I guess we'll manage to take care of ourselves," answered Tom,
and then he and his brothers followed their uncle up to the rooms
which had been engaged for them during their stay in the town."He's, down in the mouth, and no mistake," was Tom's comment, when
the boys were left to themselves."I never saw him so humble
before.""Perhaps knocking around has taught him a lesson," said Dick."I
hope he really does turn over a new leaf."Randolph Rover gathered all the
information he could concerning the trail along the Congo, and
also tried to locate Niwili Camp.He likewise purchased several
additions to his outfits from Simon Hook, and engaged the services
of several natives, the leader of whom was a brawny black named
Cujo, a fellow who declared that he knew every foot of the
territory to be covered and who said he was certain that he could
locate King Susko sooner or later."Him bad man," he said soberly."No et him catch you, or you
suffer big lot!"Cujo took to Aleck from the start, and the pair
soon became warm friends.The African inspected their outfits
with interest and offered several suggestions regarding additional
purchases.Three days were spent in Boma, and during that time the Rovers saw
a good deal of Dan Baxter, who, having nothing better to do, hung
around them continually.He remained as meek as before, but our
friends did not know that this was merely the meekness of a savage
cur while under the whip.Baxter was naturally a brute, and
lacked the backbone necessary far genuine reformation."Say, why can't you take me with you?"he asked, on the day that
the Rover expedition was to start out."I'm willing to do my
share of the work and the fighting, and I won't charge you a cent
for my service.""I don't know as my uncle wants anybody along," said Sam, to whom
Baxter addressed his remarks."Well, won't you speak to him about it, Sam?I can't find
anything to do here, and the captains to whom I've applied don't
want me on their ships," pleaded the former bully of Putnam Hall.Sam was easily touched at all times, and he knew that Baxter must
feel lonely and wretched so far from home and without friends or
capital.He at once went to his brothers and his uncle and laid
the big youth's proposition before them."We don't want him," said Dick promptly."I don't believe he would be of any use to us.""I would rather give him some more money just for him to stay
behind," added Tom."Well, I don't like Baxter any more than the others do.But it
seems awfully hard on him.I don't believe he knows how to turn.""We might give him enough money to get back to the United States
with.""I'd rather have you do that, Uncle Randolph," said Dick."I
don't want him with me.""I will have a talk with the misguided boy," was the conclusion
reached by Randolph Rover; but he got no chance to speak to Dan
Baxter until late in the afternoon, and then, to his astonishment,
Baxter's manner had changed entirely, he intimating that he wanted
nothing more to do with them.For in the meantime something which was bound to be of great
importance to the Rovers had occurred.In Boma were a number of
persons of mixed French and native blood who were little better
than the old-time brigands of Italy.They were led by a wicked
wretch who went by the name of Captain Villaire.Villaire had
been watching the Rovers for two days when he noticed the coldness
which seemed to exist between, our friends and Baxter.At once he
threw himself in Baxter's way and began to it pump the youth
regarding the Americans."Zay are going into the interior, you have remarked," he said in
very bad English."Yes, they are well fixed," answered the tall youth."And zay do carry zare money wid zem?""I guess not--at least, not much of it.""Yes, I hate them," muttered Dan, and his eyes shone wickedly."I'm only treating them in a friendly way now because I'm out of
money and must do something."It ees a good head you have--verra good," murmured
Captain Villaire."Do you know, I heara dem talk about you?""De one boy say you should be in ze jail; didn't you robba
somebody.""You lika do somet'ing wid me?"continued the French native,
closing one eye suggestively.He was a close reader of human
nature and had read Baxter's character as if it was an open book."We gitta dem people into trouble--maka big lot of money.""All right--I'll do anything," answered Baxter savagely."So
they said I ought to be in jail, eh?"You helpa me, I helpa you," went on the wily French native.He had his plan all ready, and, after sounding Baxter some more,
revealed what was in his mind, which was simply to follow the
Rovers into the interior and then make them prisoners.Once this
was done, they would hold the prisoners for a handsome ransom."That's a big job," answered the big youth."But I like your
plan, first-rate if you can carry it out.""I have half a dozen of ze
best of killowers-za, nevair fail me.But as you knowa dem you
will have to do ze lettair writing for us, so zat we git ze money
from zare people at home.""Trust me for that," responded Baxter quickly."You do the capturing and I'll make Mrs.Rover or
somebody else pay up handsomely, never fear."And so a compact was formed which was to give the Rovers a good
deal of trouble in the near future.CHAPTER XVI

THE START UP THE CONGO


"It was queer Dan Baxter should act so," said Sam to his uncle,
when Mr.Rover came back from his interview with the bully."I
thought he wanted to, go the worst way.""He acted as if he had struck something else," answered Randolph
Rover."He didn't even want the money I offered.Perhaps he has
received a remittance from home.""His father is still in
jail.""Perhaps he got Mumps to send it to him," said Sam."But I
forgot, Mumps is away."There was no time to discuss the situation further, for they were
to start early on the following morning, and there were yet a
dozen small matters which must be given attention.All were busy,
and it was not until after eleven that evening that they turned
in.The day for the departure from Boma dawned bright and clear, and
Cujo appeared with his assistants while they were still eating
breakfast."Werry good day for um journey," he said, with a grin."Make good
many miles if nothing go wrong.""You can't do any too well for me," answered Dick."I hope our
expedition into the interior is both short and successful."At first they had thought to go
on horseback; but this was abandoned by the advice of the native,
who declared that horses would prove more of a drag than a help in
many places."Horse canno' climb tree bridge," he explained."No climb high
rock, no go around bad hill.We go on foot an' make better time."The town was soon left behind and they struck a highway which for
several miles afforded easy traveling.On all sides were dense
groves of tropical growth, palms, mangoes, and the like, with
enormous vines festooned from one tree to the next.Underneath
were a great variety, of ferns and mosses, the homes of countless
insects and small animals.The ground was black and wherever
turned up gave forth a sickly odor of decayed vegetation."That is regular fever territory," explained Randolph Rover."Boys, do not sleep on the ground if you can possibly avoid it.I
sincerely trust that none of us take the tropical fever.""If I feel it coming on I'll take a good dose of quinine,"
declared Tom.Fortunately they had brought along a good supply of that valuable
drug.On one side
of the highway was the broad river, which glinted like molten lead
in the sunshine.They could not travel very close to its bank,
for here the ground was uncertain.Once Sam left the highway to
get a better view of the stream, and, before Cujo noticed it,
found himself up to his knees in a muck which stuck to him like so
much glue.roared the youngest Rover, and all of the party
turned, to behold him waving his hand frantically toward them.exclaimed Aleck, and started to go
to Sam's assistance, when Cujo called him back."Must be werry careful," said the native."Ground bad over
dare--lose life if urn don't have a care.And he
approached Sam by a circuitous route over the tufts of grass
which grew like so many dots amid the swamp.Soon he was close
enough to throw the youth the end of a rope he carried.The pull
that, followed nearly took Sam's arms out by the sockets; but the
boy was saved, to return to the others of the party with an
experience which was destined to be very useful to him in, the
future."It will teach me to be careful of where I am going after this,"
he declared."Why, that bog looked almost as safe as the ground
over here!""Tropical places are all full of just such treacherous swamps,"
returned Randolph Rover."It will be wise for all of us to
remember that we are now in a strange territory and that we must
have our eyes and ears wide open."At half-past eleven they came to a halt for dinner.The sun was
now almost overhead, and they were glad enough to seek the shelter
of a number of palms standing in front of a--native hostelry."We will rest here until two o'clock," said Mr."It is all
out of the question to travel in the heat of the day, as we did
yesterday, in such a climate as this.They found the hostelry presided over by a short, fat native who
scarcely spoke a word of English.But he could speak French, and
Mr.Rover spoke to him in that language, while Cujo carried on a
talk in the native tongue.The midday repast was cooked over a
fire built between several stones.The boys watched the cooking
process with interest and were surprised to find, when it came to
eating, that the food prepared tasted so good.They had antelope
steak and a generous supply of native bread, and pure cocoa, which
Tom declared as good as chocolate.After the meal they took it easy in a number of grass hammocks
stretched beneath the wide spreading palms surrounding the wayside
inn, if such it might be called.Aleck and Cujo fell to smoking
and telling each other stories, while the Rovers dozed away, lulled
to sleep by the warm, gentle breeze which was blowing."I don't wonder the natives are lazy," remarked Dick, when his
uncle aroused him."I rarely slept in the daytime at home, and
here I fell off without half trying.""The climate is very enervating, Dick.That is why this section
of the globe makes little or no progress toward civilization.Energetic men come here, with the best intention in the world of
hustling, as it is termed, but soon their ambition oozes out of
them like--well, like molasses out of a barrel lying on a hot
dock in the sun.he called out, and soon the party was on
its way again.The highway was still broad, but now it was not as even as before,
and here and there they had to leap over just such a treacherous
swamp as had caused Sam so much trouble."It's a good thing we
didn't bring the horses," said Mr."I didn't think so
before, but I do now."The jungle was filled with countless birds, of all sorts, sizes,
and colors.Some of these sang in a fairly tuneful fashion, but
the majority uttered only sounds which were as painful to the
hearing as they were tiresome."The sound is enough to drive a nervous fellow crazy," declared
Tom."It's a good thing nature fixed it so that a man can't grow
up nervous here.""Perhaps those outrageous cries are meant to wake a chap up,"
suggested Dick."I've a good mind to shoot some of the little pests.""You may take a few shots later on and see what you can bring down
for supper," answered his uncle."But just now let us push on as
fast as we can.""Remember we are out here to find father, not
to hunt.""As if I would ever forget that," answered Dick, with a
reproachful glance.They were now traveling a bit of a hill which took them, temporarily,
out of sight of the Congo.Cujo declared this was a short route
and much better to travel than the other.The way was through a
forest of African teak wood, immense trees which seemed to tower
to the very skies."They are as large as the immense trees of California of which you
have all heard," remarked Randolph Rover."It is a very useful
wood, used extensively in ship building.""After all, I think a boat on the Congo would have been better to
use than shoe leather," said Sam, who was beginning to grow tired."No use a boat when come to falls," grinned Cujo.Aleck had been dragging behind, carrying a heavy load, to which
he was unaccustomed.Now he rejoined the others with the
announcement that another party was in their rear."They are on foot, too," he said."Cujo whar you dun t'ink da be
gwine?""To the next settlement, maybe," was Randolph Rover's comment,
and Cujo nodded.They waited a bit for the other party to come up, but it did not,
and, after walking back, Cujo returned with the announcement that
they were nowhere in sight."Perhaps they turned off on a side road," said Tom, and there the
matter was dropped, to be brought to their notice very forcibly
that night.Evening found them at another hostelry, presided over by a
Frenchman who had a giant negress for a wife.The pair were a
crafty looking couple, and did not at all please the Rovers."Perhaps we may as well sleep with one eye open tonight," said
Randolph Rover, upon retiring."We are in a strange country, and
it's good advice to consider every man an enemy until he proves
himself a friend."The hostelry was divided into half a dozen rooms, all on the
ground floor.The Rovers were placed in two adjoining apartments,
while the natives and Aleck were quartered in an addition of
bamboo in the rear."Keep your eyes and ears open, Aleck," whispered Dick, on
separating from the faithful <DW52> man."And if you find
anything wrong let us know at once.""Do you suspect anyt'ing, Massah Rober?"Something in the air seems to tell me that
everything is not as it should be.""Dat Frenchman don't look like no angel, sah," and Aleck shook his
head doubtfully."You're right, Aleck, and his wife is a terror, or else I miss my
guess.""Dat's right, Massah Rober; nebber saw sech sharp eyes.Yes, I'll
look out-fo' my own sake as well as fo' de sake ob Ye and de
rest," concluded Aleck.CHAPTER XVII

THE ATTACK AT THE HOSTELRY


The night was exceptionally cool for that locality; and, utterly
worn out by their tiresome journey, all of the Rovers slept more
soundly than they had anticipated.Dick had scarcely dropped off when he heard a
noise at the doorway, which was covered with a rough grass
curtain."Dat's all right," came in a whisper from Aleck."Is dat yo',
Massah Dick?""I dun discovered somet'ing, sah.""Dat udder party dun come up an' is in de woods back ob dis,
house.""No; dare is a Frenchman wot is talkin' to dah chap wot runs dis
shebang, sah.""Perhaps he wants accommodations," mused Dick."Can't say about dat, sah.But de fellers who come up hab a lot
ob ropes wid 'em."came sleepily from Tom, and presently Randolph
Rover and Sam likewise awoke.In a few words the <DW52> man explained the situation.He had
just finished when the wife of the proprietor of the resort came
up to the doorway."The gentleman is wanted outside by my husband," she said in
broken French.But he says please to step out for a moment."Rover repeated the woman's words to the boys."I tell you something is wrong," declared Dick."But what can be wrong, my lad?""If you go outside I'll go with you, Uncle Randolph.""Well, you can do that if you wish."The pair arose and speedily slipped on the few garments which they
had taken off."Do you think it is as bad as that?"But I'm going to take uncle's advice
and count every man an enemy until he proves himself a friend."Rover and Dick were ready to go out, and they did so,
followed by Aleck and preceded by the native woman.As it was
dark the Rovers easily concealed their weapons in the bosoms of
their coats.They walked past the bamboo addition and to the grove of trees
Aleck had mentioned.There they found the Frenchman in
conversation with Captain Villaire."Very much," answered Villaire in French."And this is one of your nephews?""I believe you are hunting for the young man's father?""He is, then,
alive?""Yes; but a prisoner, and very sick.He heard of your being in
Boma by accident through a native of King Susko's tribe who was
sent to the town for some supplies.I heard the story and I have
been employed to lead you to him, and at once.""But--but this is marvelous," stammered Randolph Rover."I must
say I do not understand it.""It is a very queer turn of affairs, I admit.Rover
must explain to you when you meet.He wishes you to come to him
alone.As well as he was able Randolph Rover explained matters to Dick.In the meantime, however, the youth had been looking around
sharply and had noted several forms gliding back and forth in the
gloom under the trees."Uncle Randolph, I don't believe this man," he said briefly."The
story he tells is too unnatural.""I think so myself, Dick; but still--"

"Why didn't this man come straight to the house to tell us this?"Randolph Rover put the question to Captain Villaire.The
Frenchman scowled deeply and shrugged his shoulders."I had my
reason," he said briefly.Before Randolph Rover could answer there came a shout from behind
several trees.repeated Dick, when of a sudden a half dozen men rushed
at him and Randolph Rover and surrounded the pair.In a twinkle,
before either could use his pistol, he was hurled flat and made a
prisoner."Bind them, men," ordered Villaire sternly."And bind them well,
so that escape is impossible."yelled, out Dick, before those on top
of him could choke him off.And off he sped at top
speed, with three or four of Captain Villaire's party after him.Cujo also went to the house, bewildered by what was going on and
hardly knowing how to turn.Randolph Rover fought desperately and so did Dick.But the two
were no match for the six men who had attacked them, and ere they
knew it the Rovers were close prisoners, with their hands bound
behind them and each with a dirty gag of grass stuffed in his
mouth."Now march, or you will be shot," came in bad English from one of
the Villaire party.And as there seemed nothing better to do they
marched, wondering why they had been attacked and where they were
to be taken.Their arms had been confiscated, so further
resistance was useless.When Dick lagged behind he received a
cruel blow on the back which nearly sent him headlong.A journey of several hours brought the party to a small clearing
overlooking the Congo at a point where the bank was fully fifty
feet above the surface of the stream.Here, in years gone by, a
rough log hut had been built, which the African International
Association had once used as a fort during a war with the natives.The log hut was in a state of decay, but still fit for use and
almost hidden from view by the dense growth of vines which covered
it.The men who had brought Randolph Rover and Dick hither evidently
knew all about the hut, for they proceeded to make themselves at
home without delay.Taking the Rovers into one of the apartments
of the dilapidated building they tied each to the logs of the
walls, one several yards from the other."Now you must wait until Captain Villaire returns," said the
leader of the party in French."He will tell you what it means," grinned the brigand, and walked
away to another part of the hut, which was built in a long,
rambling fashion, and contained a dozen or more divisions."We are in a pickle," remarked Dick dismally."This is hunting
up father with a vengeance."But I would like to know what this
means.""It probably means robbery, for one thing, Uncle Randolph."If I am not mistaken I saw some of these rascals hanging around
the hotel in Boma."They have been watching their chance
to attack us ever since we left the town."Slowly the hours wore away until morning dawned.The positions of
both Dick and his uncle were most uncomfortable ones, and the
youth was ready to groan aloud at the strain put upon his
shoulders through having his arms tied behind him.At last they heard footsteps approaching from the opposite end of
the rambling building.He had scarcely spoken when Captain Villaire appeared, followed
by--Dan Baxter!CHAPTER XVIII

A DEMAND OF IMPORTANCE


Dick could scarcely believe the evidence of his own eyesight as he
gazed at the former bully of Putnam Hall and the Frenchman who
stood beside him."Well, that's a good one, I must
say."He is in with these rascals who have captured us," came quickly
from Dick."This is how you repay our kindness, Baxter?"Didn't I refuse your
offer, made just before you went away?""But you didn't refuse the first money we gave you, Baxter.""We won't talk about that, Dick
Rover.Do you realize that you are absolutely in my power?"It was not you who captured us, Baxter.""Well, it amounts to the same thing, eh, Capitan Villaire?"and
the big boy turned to the French brigand, who nodded."Ve will not speak of zem udders," broke in Captain Villaire."Did Baxter put up this plot against us?"To be sure I did," answered Baxter, who loved to brag just as
much as ever."And before I let you go I'm going to make you pay up dearly for
all that I have suffered.Captain Villaire, have you had them
searched?""Yees, Baxter, but za had not mooch monish wid zem.""Then they left it behind at Binoto's place," was the quick
answer."Now if those others aren't captured--"

"Hush, ve vill not speak of zat," put in the brigand hastily."Tell zeni what I haf tole you."Dan Baxter turned once more to the
prisoners."Do you know why you were brought here?""To be robbed, I presume," answered Randolph Rover."Or that and worse," said Dick significantly,

"I reckon I have a right to all of your money, Dick Rover.""I don't see how you make that out, Baxter.""Years ago your father robbed mine out of the rights to a rich
gold mine in the United States."I claim, and so did my father,
that the mine was ours."The mine was discovered by my fattier, and if
everything had gone right he would have had the income from it."What do you
intend to do with us?""We intend to make money out of you," was the answer, given with a
rude laugh."First you will have to answer a few questions.""Zat ees it," put in Captain Villaire."How mooch morlish you
bring wid you from America?""We didn't bring much," answered Randolph Rover, who began to
smell a mouse."You leave zat in Boma, wid ze bankers, eh?""But you haf von big lettair of credit, not so?""Yes, we have a letter of credit," answered Randolph Rover."But
that won't do you any good, nor the money at the banker's
neither.""Ve see about zat, monsieur.Proceed," and Captain Villaire waved
his hand toward Dan Baxter."This is the situation in a nutshell, to come right down to
business," said the former bully of Putnam Hall coolly."You are
our prisoners, and you can't get away, no matter how hard you try.Captain Villaire and his men, as well as myself, are in this
affair to make money.The question is, what is your liberty worth
to you?""So you intend to work such a game?""Well, I shan't pay you a cent.""Don't be a fool, Dick Rover."Well, I haven't any money, and that ends it."Then you will have to foot the bill," continued Dan Baxter,
turning to Randolph Rover."If you value your liberty you will pay us what we demand.""We demand twenty thousand dollars--ten thousand for the liberty
of each."This demand nearly took away Randolph Rover's breath.You are worth a good deal more than that, Mr.And
I am demanding only what is fair.""Perhaps you'll sing a different tune in a few, days--after your
stomachs get empty," responded Dan Baxter, with a malicious gleam
in his fishy eyes."So you mean to starve us into acceding to your
demands," said Dick."Baxter, I always did put you down as a
first-class rascal.If you keep, on, you'll be more of a one than
your father."In high rage the former bully of Putnam Hall strode forward and
without warning struck the defenseless Dick a heavy blow on the
cheek."That, for your impudence," he snarled."You keep a civil tongue
in your head.If you don't--"  He finished with a shake of his
fist."You had bettair make up your mind to pay ze monish," said Captain
Villaire, after a painful pause."It will be ze easiest way out
of ze situation for you.""Don't you pay a cent, Uncle Randolph," interrupted Dick quickly.Then Baxter hit him again, such a stinging blow that he almost
lost consciousness."He is tied up, otherwise you
would never have the courage to attack him.Baxter, have you no
spirit of fairness at all in your composition?""Don't preach--I won't listen to it!""You
have got to pay that money.If you don't--well, I don't believe
you'll ever reach America alive, that's all."With these words Dan Baxter withdrew, followed by Captain
Villaire.They value their lives too much to
refuse.Just wait until they have suffered the pangs of hunger
and thirst, and you'll see how they change their tune.""You are certain za have ze monish?"It will only be a question of waiting for
the money after they send for it.""Neither will I--if we are safe here.You don't think anybody
will follow us?""Not unless za find ze way up from ze rivair.Za cannot come here
by land, because of ze swamps," answered the Frenchman."And ze
way from ze rivair shall be well guarded from now on," he added.CHAPTER XIX

WHAT HAPPENED TO TOM AND SAM


Let us return to Tom and Sam, at the time they were left alone at
Binoto's hostelry."I wish we had gone with Dick and Uncle Randolph," said Tom, as he
slipped into his coat and shoes."I don't like this thing at
all.""Oh, don't get scared before you are hurt, Tom!""These people out here may be peculiar, but--"

Sam did not finish.A loud call from the woods had reached his
ears, and in alarm he too began to dress, at the same time
reaching for his pistol and the money belt which Randolph Rover
had left behind."I--I guess something is wrong," he went on, after a pause."If
we--"

"Tom!came from Aleck, and in a
second more the <DW64>, burst on their view."Come, if yo' is
dressed!"And
Aleck almost dragged the boy along.The Rover boys could readily surmise that Aleck would not act in
this highly excited manner unless there was good cause for it.Consequently, as Sam said afterward, "They didn't stand on the
order of their going, but just flew."Pell-mell out of the
hostelry they tumbled, and ran up the highway as rapidly as their
nimble limbs would permit.They heard several men coming after them, and heard the command
"Halt!"yelled after them in both French and bad English.But
they did not halt until a sudden tumble on Tom's part made the
others pause in dismay.groaned the fun-loving Rover, and tried to
stand up."We ain't got no time ter lose!"panted Aleck, who was almost
winded."If we stay here we'll be gobbled up--in no time, dat's
shuah!""Let us try to carry Tom," said Sam, and attempted to lift his
brother up."De trees--let us dun hide in, de trees!"went on the <DW64>,
struck by a certain idea.groaned Tom, and then shut his teeth hard
to keep himself from screaming with pain.Together they carried the suffering youth away from the highway to
where there was a thick jungle of trees and tropical vines.The
vines, made convenient ladders by which to get up into the trees,
and soon Sam and Aleck were up and pulling poor Tom after them."Now we must be still," said Aleck, when they were safe for the
time being."Hear dem a-conun' dis way."The three listened and soon made out the footsteps of the
approaching party."But, oh, Aleck, what does it all mean?""It means dat yo' uncle an' Dick am prisoners--took by a lot of
rascals under a tall, Frenchman.""Yes, but I don't understand--"

"No more do I, Massah Sam, but it war best to git out, dat's as
shuah as yo' is born," added the <DW52> man solemnly.Poor Torn was having a wretched time of it with his ankle, which
hurt as badly as ever and had begun to swell.As he steadied
himself on one of the limbs of the tree Sam removed his shoe,
which gave him a little relief.From a distance came a shouting, and they made out through the
trees the gleam of a torch.But soon the sounds died out and the
light disappeared."One thing is certain, I can't walk just yet," said Tom."When I
put my foot down it's like a thousand needles darting through my
leg.""Let us go below and hunt up some water," said Sam; and after
waiting a while longer they descended into the small brush.Aleck
soon found a pool not far distant, and to this they carried Tom,
and after all had had a drink, the swollen ankle was bathed, much
to the sufferer's relief.As soon as the sun was
up Aleck announced that he was going back to the hostelry to see
how the land lay."But don't expose yourself," said Tom."I am certain now that is
a regular robbers' resort, or worse."Aleck was gone the best part of three hours.When he returned he
was accompanied by Cujo.The latter announced that all of the
other natives had fled for parts unknown."The inn is deserted," announced Aleck.Even that <DW52> wife of
the proprietor is gone."And did you find any trace of Dick and my uncle?""We found out where dat struggle took place," answered, Aleck."And Cujo reckons as how he can follow de trail if we don't wait
too long to do it.""Must go soon," put in Cujo for himself."Maybe tomorrow come big storm--den track all washed away.""You can go on, but you'll have to
leave me behind.I couldn't walk a hundred yards for a barrel of
gold.""Oh, we can't think of leaving you behind!""I'll tell you wot--Ise dun carry him, at least fe a spell,"
said Aleck, and so it was arranged.Under the new order of things Cujo insisted on making a scouting
tour first, that he might strike the trail before carrying them
off on a circuitous route, thus tiring Aleck out before the real
tracking began.The African departed, to be gone the best Part of an hour.When
he came back there was a broad grin of satisfaction on his homely
features."Cujo got a chicken," he announced, producing the fowl."And here
am some werry good roots, too.Now va dinner befo' we start out."cried Pop, and began to start up a fire
without delay, while Cujo cleaned the fowl and mashed up the
roots, which, when baked on a hot stone, tasted very much like
sweet potatoes.The meal was enjoyed by all, even Tom eating his
full share in spite of his swollen ankle, which was now gradually
resuming its normal condition.Cujo had found the trail at a distance of an eighth of a mile
above the wayside hostelry."Him don't lead to de ribber dare,"
he said."But I dun think somet'ing of him."asked Tom, from his seat on Aleck's
back."I t'ink he go to de kolobo.""De kolobo old place on ribber-place where de white soldiers shoot
from big fort-house.""But would the authorities allow, them to go
there?""No soldiers dare now--leave kolobo years ago.Well, follow the trail as best you can--and we'll see
what we will see.""And let us get along just as fast as we can," added Sam.On they went through a forest that in spots was so thick they
could scarcely pass.The jungle contained every kind of tropical
growth, including ferns, which were beautiful beyond description,
and tiny vines so wiry that they cut like a knife."But I suppose it doesn't hold a
candle to what is beyond.""Werry bad further on," answered Cujo."See, here am de trail,"
and he pointed it out.Several miles were covered, when they came to a halt in order to
rest and to give Aleck a let up in carrying Tom.The youth now
declared his foot felt much better and hobbled along for some
distance by leaning on Sam's shoulder.Presently they were startled by hearing a cry from a distance.They listened intently, then Cujo held up his hand."Me go an' see about dat," he said."Keep out ob sight, all ob
you!"And he glided into the bushes with the skill and silence of
a snake.Another wait ensued, and Tom improved the time by again bathing
his foot in a pool which was discovered not far from where Cujo
had left them.The water seemed to do much good, and the youth
declared that by the morrow he reckoned he would be able to do a
fair amount of walking if they did not progress too rapidly."I declare they could burn wood night and day for a century and
never miss a stick.""I thought I heard some monkeys chattering a while ago," answered
Sam."I suppose the interior is alive with them.""I dun see a monkey lookin' at us now, from dat tree," observed
Aleck."See dem shinin' eyes back ob de leaves?"He pointed with
his long forefinger, and both, boys gazed in the direction.He started back and the others did the same.And they were none
too soon, for an instant later the leaves were thrust apart and a
serpent's form appeared, swaying slowly to and fro, as if
contemplating a drop upon their very heads!CHAPTER XX

THE FIGHT AT THE OLD FORT


For the instant after the serpent appeared nobody spoke or moved.The waving motion of the reptile was fascinating to the last
degree, as was also that beady stare from its glittering eyes.The stare was fixed upon poor Tom, and having retreated but a few
feet, he now stood as though rooted to the spot.Slowly the form
of the snake was lowered, until only the end of its tail kept it
up on the tree branch.Then the head and neck began to swing back
and forth, in a straight line with Tom's face.The horrible fascination held the poor, boy as by a spell, and he
could do nothing but look at those eyes, which seemed to bum
themselves upon his very brain.Closer and closer, and still
closer, they came to his face, until at last the reptile prepared
to strike.It was Sam's pistol that spoke up, at just the right
instant, and those beady eyes were ruined forever, and the wounded
head twisted in every direction, while the body of the serpent,
dropping from the tree, lashed and dashed hither and thither in
its agony.Then the spell was broken, and Tom let out such a yell
of terror as had never before issued from his lips.came a second shot from Sam's pistol.But the serpent was
moving around too rapidly for a good aim to be taken, and only the
tip of the tail was struck.Then, in a mad, blind fashion, the
snake coiled itself upon Aleck's foot, and began, with
lightning-like rapidity, to encircle the <DW52> man's body.shrieked Aleck, trying to pull the snake off with his
hands.or Ise a dead man, shuah!""Catch him by the neck, Aleck!"ejaculated Tom, and brought out
his own pistol.Watching his chance, he pulled the trigger twice,
sending both bullets straight through the reptile's body.Then
Sam fired again, and the mangled head fell to the ground.But dead or alive the body still encircled Aleck, and the
contraction threatened to cave in the <DW52> man's ribs.went Tom's pistol once more, and now the snake had
evidently had enough of it, for it uncoiled slowly and fell to the
ground in a heap, where it slowly shifted from one spot to another
until life was extinct.But neither the boys nor the <DW52> man
waited to see if it was really dead.Instead, they took to their
heels and kept on running until the locality was left a
considerable distance behind."That was a close shave," said Tom, as he dropped on the ground
and began to nurse his lame ankle once more.but that snake
was enough to give one the nightmare!""Don't say a word," groaned Aleck, who had actually turned pale."I vought shuah I was a goner, I did fo' a fac'!I don't want to
meet no mo' snakes!"The two boys reloaded their pistols with all rapidity, and this
was scarcely accomplished when they heard Cujo calling to them.When told of what had
happened he would not believe the tale until he had gone back to
look at the dead snake."Him big wonder um snake didn't kill
all of yo'!"He had located Captain
Villaire's party at the old fort, and said that several French
brigands were on guard, by the trail leading from the swamp and at
the cliff overlooking the river."I see white boy dare too," he added."Same boy wot yo' give
money to in Boma.""Can it be possible that he is
mixed up in this affair?""I can't understand it at all," returned Tom."But the question
is, now we have tracked the rascals, what is to be done next?"After a long talk it was resolved to get as close to the old fort
as possible.Cujo said they need not hurry, for it would be best
to wait until nightfall before making any demonstration against
their enemies.The African was very angry to think that the other
natives had deserted the party, but this anger availed them
nothing.Four o'clock in the afternoon found them on the edge of the swamp
and not far from the bank of the Congo.Beyond was the cliff,
overgrown in every part with rank vegetation, and the ever-present
vines, which hung down like so many ropes of green."If we want to get up the wall we won't want any scaling ladders,"
remarked Tom grimly."Oh, if only we knew that Dick and Uncle
Randolph were safe!""I'm going to find out pretty soon," replied Sam."I'll tell you
what I think.But I didn't dream of such a thing
being done down here although, I know it is done further north in
Africa among the Moors and Algerians."Cujo now went off on another scout and did not return until the
sun was setting."I can show you a way up de rocks," he said."We can get to the
walls of um fort, as you call um, without being seen."Soon night was upon them, for in the tropics there is rarely any
twilight.Tom now declared himself able to walk once more, and
they moved off silently, like so many shadows, beside the swamp
and then over a fallen palm to where a series of rocks, led up to
the cliff proper.They came to a halt, and through the gloom saw a solitary figure
sitting on a rock.The sentinel held a gun over his knees and was
smoking a cigarette."If he sees us he will give the alarm," whispered Tom."Can't we
capture him without making a noise?""Dat's de talk," returned Aleck."Cujo, let us dun try dat
trick.""Urn boys stay here," he said.And off he crawled through the wet grass, taking a circuitous
route which brought him up on the sentinel's left.As he did so Cujo leaped
from the grass and threw him to the earth.Then a long knife
flashed in the air."No speak, or um diet" came softly; but, the
Frenchman realized that the African meant what he said.he growled, in the language of the African.Cujo let out a low whistle, which the others rightly guessed was a
signal for them to come up.Finding himself surrounded, the
Frenchman gave up his gun and other weapons without a struggle.He could talk no English, so what followed had to be translated by
Cujo."Yes, de man an' boy are dare," explained Cujo, pointing to the
fort."Da chained up, so dis rascal say.De captain ob de band
want heap money to let um go.""Ask him how many of the band there are," asked Sam.But at this question the Frenchman shook his head.Either he did
not know or would not tell.After a consultation the rascal was made to march back to safer
ground.Then he was strapped to a tree and gagged.The straps
were not fastened very tightly, so that the man was sure to gain
his liberty sooner or later."If we didn't come back and he was
too tight he might starve to death," said Tom."Not but wot he deserves to starve," said Aleck, with a scowl at
the crestfallen prisoner.At the foot of the cliff all was as dark and silent as a tomb."We go slow now, or maybe take a big tumble," cautioned Cujo."Perhaps him better if me climb up first," and he began the
dangerous ascent of the cliff by means of the numerous vines
already mentioned.He was halfway up when the others started after him, Sam first,
Tom next, and Aleck bringing up in the rear.Slowly they arose until the surface of the stream was a score or
more of feet below them.Then came the sounds of footsteps from
above and suddenly a torch shone down into their upturned faces.came in English and the Rover boys recognized
Dan Baxter."How came you--"

"Silence, Baxter!I have a pistol and you know I am a good shot.Stand where you an and put both hands over your head."yelled the bully, and flung his torch
straight at Tom.Then he turned and ran for the fort, giving the
alarm at the top of his lungs.The torch struck Tom on the neck, and for the moment the youth was
in danger of losing his hold on the vines and tumbling to the
jagged rocks below.But then the torch slipped away, past Sam and
Aleck, and went hissing into the dark waters of the Congo.By this time Cujo had reached the top of the cliff and was making
after Baxter.Both gained the end of the fort at the same time and
one mighty blow from Cujo's club laid Baxter senseless near the
doorway.The cry came in Dick's voice, and was plainly
heard by Sam and Tom.Then Captain Villaire appeared, and a rough
and tumble battle ensued, which the Rovers well remember to this
day.But Tom was equal to the occasion, and after the first onslaught
he turned, as if summoning help from the cliff."Tell the company to come up here and the other company
can surround the swamp!"Several pistol shots rang out, and the boys saw a Frenchman go
down with a broken arm.Then Captain Villaire shouted: "We have
been betrayed--we must flee!"The cry came in French, and as if
by magic the brigands disappeared into the woods behind the old
fort; and victory was upon the side of our friends.CHAPTER XXI

INTO THE HEART OF AFRICA


"Well, I sincerely trust we have no more such adventures."He was seated on an old bench in
one of the rooms of the fort, binding up a finger which had been
bruised in the fray.It was two hours later, and the fight had
come to an end some time previous.Nobody was seriously hurt,
although Sam, Dick, and Aleck were suffering from several small
wounds.Aleck had had his ear clipped by a bullet from Captain
Villaire's pistol and was thankful that he had not been killed.Baxter, the picture of misery, was a prisoner.The bully's face
was much swollen and one eye was in deep mourning.He sat huddled
up in a heap in a corner and wondering what punishment would be
dealt out to him."I suppose they'll kill me," he groaned, and it
may be added that he thought he almost deserved that fate."You came just in time," said Dick."Captain Villaire was about
to torture us into writing letters home asking for the money he
wanted as a ransom.Baxter put it into his head that we were very
rich.""Oh, please don't say anything more about it!""I--that Frenchman put up this job all on
his own hook.""I don't believe it," came promptly from Randolph Rover."You met
him, at Boma; you cannot deny it.""So I did; but he didn't say he was going to capture you, and I--"

"We don't care to listen to your falsehoods, Baxter," interrupted
Dick sternly.Cujo had gone off to watch Captain Villaire and his party.He now
came back, bringing word that the brigand had taken a fallen tree
and put out on the Congo and was drifting down the stream along
with several of his companions in crime."Him won't come back," said the tall African."Him had enough of
urn fight."Nevertheless the whole party remained on guard until morning,
their weapons ready for instant use.But no alarm came, and when
day, dawned they soon made sure that they had the entire locality
around the old fort to themselves, the Frenchman with a broken arm
having managed to crawl off and reach his friends.What to do with Dan Baxter was a conundrum."We can't take him with us, and if we leave him behind he will
only be up to more evil," said Dick."We ought to turn him over
to the British authorities.""No, no, don't do that," pleaded the tall youth."Let me go and
I'll promise never to interfere with you again.""Your promises are not worth the breath used in uttering them,"
replied Tom."Baxter, a worse rascal than you could not be
imagined.Why don't you try to turn over a new leaf?""I will--if you'll only give me one more chance," pleaded the
former bully of Putnam Hall.The matter was discussed in private and it was at last decided to
let Baxter go, providing he would, promise to return straight to
the coast."And remember," said Dick, "if we catch you following us again we
will shoot you on sight.""I won't follow--don't be alarmed," was the low answer, and then
Baxter was released and conducted to the road running down to
Boma.He was given the knife he had carried, but the Rovers kept
his pistol, that he might not be able to take a long-range shot at
them.Soon he was out of their sight, not to turn up again for a
long while to come.It was not until the heat of the day had been spent that the
expedition resumed its journey, after, an excellent meal made from
the supplies Captain Villaire's party had left behind in their
hurried flight.Some of the remaining supplies were done up into
bundles by Cujo, to replace those which had been lost when the
natives hired by Randolph Rover had deserted."It's queer we didn't see anything of that man and woman from the
inn," remarked Dick, as they set off."I reckon they got scared
at the very start."They journeyed until long after nightfall, "To make up for lost
time," as Mr.Rover expressed it, and so steadily did Cujo push on
that when a halt was called the boys were glad enough to rest.They had reached a native village called Rowimu.Here Cujo was
well known and he readily procured good accommodations for all
hands.The next week passed without special incident, excepting that one
afternoon the whole party went hunting, bringing down a large
quantity of birds, and several small animals, including an
antelope, which to the boys looked like a Maine deer excepting for
the peculiar formation of its horns.said Tom, when they were
returning to camp from the hunt."Oh, I reckon he is blasting away at game," laughed Sam, and Tom
at once groaned over the attempted joke."Perhaps we will meet him some day--if he's in this territory,"
put in Dick."But just now I am looking for nobody but father.""And so are all of us," said Tom and Sam promptly.They were getting deeper and deeper into the jungle and had to
take good care that they did not become separated.Yet Cujo said
he understood the way perfectly and often proved his words by
mentioning something which they would soon reach, a stream, a
little lake, or a series of rocks with a tiny waterfall."Been ober dis ground many times," said the guide."I suppose this is the ground Stanley covered in his famous
expedition along the Congo," remarked Dick, as they journeyed
along."But who really discovered the country, Uncle Randolph?""That is a difficult question to answer, Dick.The Portuguese,
the Spanish, and the French all claim that honor, along with the
English.I fancy different sections, were discovered by different
nationalities.This Free State, you know, is controlled by half a
dozen nations.""I wonder if the country will ever be thoroughly civilized?""It will take a long while, I am afraid.Many of the tribes in Africa are, you must
remember, without any form of religion whatever, being even worse
than what we call heathens, who worship some sort of a God."And their morality is of the lowest grade in
consequence.They murder and steal whenever the chance offers,
and when they think the little children too much care for them
they pitch them into the rivers for the crocodiles to feed upon.""Well, I reckon at that rate,
civilization can't come too quick, even if it has to advance
behind bayonets and cannon."CHAPTER XXII

A HURRICANE IN THE JUNGLE


On and on went the expedition.In the past many small towns and
villages had been visited where there were more or less white
people; but now they reached a territory where the blacks held
full sway, with--but this was rarely--a Christian missionary
among them.At all of the places which were visited Cujo inquired about King
Susko and his people, and at last learned that the African had
passed to the southeast along the Kassai River, driving before him
several hundred head of cattle which he had picked up here and
there."Him steal dat cattle," explained Cujo, "but him don't say dat
stealin', him say um--um--"

"A tax on the people?""He must be, unless he gives the people some benefit for the tax
they are forced to pay," said Tom.At one of the villages they leaned that there was another
American Party in that territory, one sent out by an Eastern
college to collect specimens of the flora of central Africa.It
was said that the party consisted of an elderly man and half a
dozen young fellows."I wouldn't mind meeting that crowd," said Sam."They might
brighten up things a bit.""Never mind; things will pick up when once we meet King Susko,"
said Dick."But I would like to know where the crowd is from and
who is in it.""It's not likely we would know them if they are from the East,"
said Sam.Two days later the storm which Cujo had predicted for some time
caught them while they were in the midst of an immense forest of
teak and rosewood.It was the middle of the afternoon, yet the
sky became as black as night, while from a distance came the low
rumble of thunder.There was a wind rushing high up in the air,
but as yet this had not come down any further than the treetops.The birds of the jungle took up the alarm and filled the forest
with their discordant cries, and even the monkeys, which were now
numerous, sit up a jabber which would have been highly trying to
the nerves of a nervous person."Yes, we catch um," said Cujo, in reply to Dick's question."Me
look for safe place too stay.""You think the storm will be a heavy one?""Werry heavy, massah; werry heavy," returned Cujo."Come wid me,
all ob you,"  and he set off on a run.All followed as quickly as they could, and soon found themselves
under a high mass of rocks overlooking the Kassai River.They had
hardly gained the shelter when the storm burst over their heads in
all of its wild fury."My, but this beats anything that I ever saw before!"cried Sam,
as the wind began to rush by them with ever-increasing velocity."Him blow big by-me-by," said Cujo with a sober face."The air was full of a moanin' sound," to use Aleck's way of
expressing it.It came from a great distance and caused the
monkeys and birds to set up more of a noise than ever.The trees
were now swaying violently, and presently from a distance came a
crack like that of a big pistol.asked Randolph Rover, and Cujo
nodded."It is a good thing, then, that we got out of the
forest.""Big woods werry dangerous in heap storm like dis," answered the
African.He crouched down between two of the largest rocks and instinctively
the others followed suit.The "moanin" increased until, with a
roar and a rush, a regular tropical hurricane was upon them.The blackness of the atmosphere was filled with flying tree
branches and scattered vines, while the birds, large and small,
swept past like chips on a swiftly flowing river, powerless to
save themselves in those fierce gusts.shouted Randolph Rover; but the roar
of the elements drowned out his voice completely.However, nobody
thought of rising, and the tree limbs and vines passed harmlessly
over their heads.The first rush of wind over, the rain began, to fall, at first in
drops as big as a quarter-dollar and then in a deluge which
speedily converted the hollows among the rocks into deep pools and
soaked everybody to his very skin.Soon the water was up to their
knees and pouring down into the river like a regular cataract."This is a soaker and no mistake," said Sam, during a brief lull
in the downpour."Why, I never saw so much water come down in my
life.""It's a hurricane," answered Randolph Rover, "It may keep on--"

He got no further, for at that instant a blinding flash of
lightning caused everybody to jump in alarm.Then came an
ear-splitting crack of thunder and up the river they saw a
magnificent baobab tree, which had reared its stately head over a
hundred feet high from the ground, come crashing down, split in
twain as by a Titan's ax.The blackened stump was left standing,
and soon--this burst into flames, to blaze away until another
downpour of rain put out the conflagration.murmured Aleck with a shiver."Ise
glad we didn't take no shelter under dat tree."He had been on the point of making some joke
about the storm, but now the fun was knocked completely out of
him.It rained for the rest of the day and all of the night, and for
once all hands felt thoroughly, miserable.Several times they
essayed to start a fire, by which to dry themselves and make
something hot to drink, but each time the rain put out the blaze.What they had to eat was not only cold, but more or less
water-soaked, and it was not until the next noon that they managed to
cook a meal.When at last the sun did come out, however, it shone, so Sam put
it, "with a vengeance."There was not a cloud left, and the
direct rays of the great orb of day caused a rapid evaporation of
the rain, so that the ground seemed to be covered with a sort of
mist.On every side could be seen the effects of the hurricane-broken
trees, washed-out places along the river, and dead birds
and small animals, including countless monkeys.The monkeys made
the boys' hearts ache, especially one big female, that was found
tightly clasping two little baby monkeys to her breast.The storm had swollen the river to such an extent that they were
forced to leave the beaten track Cujo had been pursuing and take
to another trail which reached out to the southward.Here they
passed a small village occupied entirely by <DW64>s, and Cujo
learned from them that King Susko had passed that way but five
days before.He had had no cattle with him, the majority of his
followers having taken another route.It was thought by some of
the natives that King Susko was bound for a mountain known as the
Hakiwaupi--or Ghost-of-Gold."Can that be the mountain
father was searching for when he came to Africa?"Inquiries from Cujo elicited the information that the mountain
mentioned was located about one hundred miles away, in the center
of an immense plain.It was said to be full of gold, but likewise
haunted by the ghost of a departed warrior known to the natives as
Gnu-ho-mumoli--Man-of-the-Gnu-eye."I reckon that ghost story, was started, by somebody who wanted,
to keep the wealth of che mountain to himself," observed Tom."I
don't believe in ghosts, do you, Cujo?"The tall African shrugged his ebony shoulders, "Maybe no ghost--but
if dare is, no want to see 'um," he said laconically.Nevertheless he did not object to leading them in the direction of
the supposedly haunted mountain.So far the natives had been more or less friendly, but now those
that were met said but little to Cujo, while scowls at the whites
were frequent.It was learned that the college party from the
East was in the vicinity."Perhaps they did something to offend the natives," observed
Randolph Rover."As you can see, they are simple and childlike in
their ways, and as quickly offended on one hand as they are
pleased on the other.All of you must be careful in your
treatment of them, otherwise we may get into serious trouble."CHAPTER XXIII

DICK MEETS AN OLD ENEMY


One afternoon Dick found himself alone near the edge of a tiny
lake situated on the southern border of the jungle through which
the party had passed.The others had gone up the lake shore,
leaving him to see what he could catch for supper.He had just hooked a magnificent fish of a reddish-brown color,
when, on looking up, he espied an elderly man gazing at him
intently from a knoll of water-grass a short distance away."Richard Rover, is it--ahem--possible?"came slowly from the
man's thin lips.ejaculated Dick, so surprised that he let the
fish fall into the water again."How on earth did you get out
here?""I presume I might--er--ask that same question," returned the
former teacher of Putnam Hall."Do you imagine I would be fool enough to do that, Mr.No, the Stanhopes and I were content to let you go--so long as
you minded your own business in the future.""Do not grow saucy, boy; I will not stand it.""I am not saucy, as you see fit to term it, Josiah Crabtree.You
know as well as I do that you ought to be in prison this minute
for plotting the abduction of Dora.""I know nothing of the kind, and will not waste words on you.But
if you did not follow me why are you here?""I am here on business, and not ashamed to own it."And you--did you come in search of your missing
father?"It is a long journey for one so
young.""It's a queer place for you to come to.""I am with an exploring party from Yale College.We are studying
the fauna and flora of central Africa--at least, they are doing
so under my guidance.""They must be learning a heap--under you.""Do you mean to say I am not capable of teaching them!"cried
Josiah Crabtree, wrathfully."Well, if I was in their place I would want somebody else besides
the man who was discharged by Captain Putnam and who failed to get
the appointment he wanted at Columbia College because he could not
stand the examination."fumed Crabtree,
coming closer and shaking, his fist in Dick's face."Well, I know something of your lack of ability.""You are doing your best to insult me!""Such an old fraud as you cannot be insulted, Josiah Crabtree.I
read your real character the first time I met you, and you have
never done anything since which has caused me to alter my opinion
of you.You have a small smattering of learning and you can put
on a very wise look when occasion requires.But that is all there
is to it, except that behind it all you are a thorough-paced
scoundrel and only lack a certain courage to do some daring bit of
rascality."This statement of plain truths fairly set Josiah Crabtree to
boiling with rage.He shook his fist in Dick's face again."Don't
dare to talk that way, Rover; don't dare--or--I'll--I'll--"

"What will you do?""Never mind; I'll show you when the proper time comes.""I told you once before that I was not afraid of you--and I am
not afraid of you now.""You did not come to Africa alone, did you?"I tell you that--and it's the
truth--so that you won't try any underhand game on me.""You--you--"  Josiah Crabtree broke off and suddenly grew
nervous."See here, Rover, let us be friends," he said abruptly."Let us drop the past and be friends-at least, so long as we are
so far away from home and in the country of the enemy."Certainly the man's manner would indicate as much."Well, I'm willing to let past matters, drop--just for the
present," he answered, hardly knowing what to say."I wish to pay
all my attention to finding my father.""Exactly, Richard--and--er--you--who is with you?And that black, how is it he came along?""They are a set of rich young students from Yale in their senior
year who engaged me to bring them hither for study
and--er--recreation.You will
not--ahem--say anything about the past to them, will you?"CHAPTER XXIV

JOSIAH CRABTREE MAKES A MOVE


As quick as a flash of lightning Dick saw through Josiah Crabtree's
scheme for, letting matters Of the past drop.The former teacher
of Putnam Hall was afraid the youth would hunt up the college
students from Yale and expose him to them.As a matter of fact, Crabtree was already "on the outs" with two
of the students, and he was afraid that if the truth regarding his
character became known his present position would be lost to him
and he would be cast off to shift for himself."You don't want me to speak to the students under your charge?""Oh, of course you can speak to them, if you wish.But I--ahem--I
would not care to--er--er--"

"To let them know what a rascal you are," finished Dick."Crabtree, let me tell you once for all, that you can expect no
friendship, from me.When I meet those
students I will tell them whatever I see fit."At these words Josiah Crabtree grew as white as a sheet.Then,
setting his teeth, he suddenly recovered.As was perfectly natural, Dick turned to gaze in the direction.As he did so, Crabtree swung a stick that he carried into the air
and brought it down with all force on the youth's head.Dick felt
a terrific pain, saw a million or more dancing lights flash
through his brain--and then he knew no more."I guess I've fixed him," muttered the former teacher of Putnam
Hall grimly.He knelt beside the fallen boy and felt of his
heart."Not dead, but pretty well knocked out.Now what had I
best do with him?"He thought for a moment, then remembered a deep hollow which he
had encountered but a short while before.Gazing around, to make
certain that nobody was watching him, he picked up the unconscious
lad and stalked off with the form, back into the jungle and up a
small hill.At the top there was a split between the rocks and dirt, and into
this he dropped poor Dick, a distance of twenty or more feet.Then he threw down some loose leaves and dead tree branches."Now I reckon I am getting square with those Rovers," he muttered,
as he hurried away.The others of the Rover party wondered why Dick did not join them
when they gathered around the camp-fire that night."He must be done fishing by this time," said Tom."I wonder if
anything has happened to him?""Let us take a walk up de lake an' see," put in Aleck, and the
pair started off without delay.They soon found the spot where Dick had been fishing.His rod and
line lay on the bank, just as he had dropped it upon Josiah
Crabtree's approach.Then, to Tom's astonishment, a
strange voice answered from the woods: "Here I am!"Dat aint Dick," muttered Aleck."Dat's sumbuddy else, Massah
Tom.""So it is," replied Tom, and presently saw a tall and well-built
young man struggling forth from the tall grass of the jungle.demanded the newcomer, as he stalked toward
them."I guess I can ask the same question," laughed Tom."Are you the
Dick who just answered me?"I am looking for my brother Dick, who was fishing
here a while ago.Are you one of that party of college students we
have heard about?""Yes, I'm a college student from Yale."We can't imagine what
has become of my brother Dick," he went on."Perhaps a lion ate him up," answered the Yale student."No, you
needn't smile.He used to be a teacher at the
academy I and my brothers attend."I have thought so
all along, but the others, would hardly believe it.""I am telling the truth, and can prove all I say.But just now I
am anxious about my brother.Crabtree was scared to
death and ran away.Frank Rand and I took shots at the beast, but
I can't say if we hit him.""It would be too bad if Dick dunh fell into dat lion's clutches,"
put in Aleck."I reckon de lion would chaw him up in no time.""Go back and call Cujo," said Tom."He may be able to track my
brother's footsteps."While he was gone Tom told Dick Chester
much concerning himself, and the college student related several
facts in connection with the party to which he belonged."There are six of us students," he said."We were going to have a
professor from Yale with us, but he got sick at the last moment
and we hired Josiah Crabtree.I wish we hadn't done it now, for
he has proved more of a hindrance than a help, and his real
knowledge of fauna and flora could be put in a peanut shell, with
room to spare.""He's a big brag," answered Tom."Take my advice and never trust
him too far--or you may be sorry for it."Presently Aleck came back, with Cujo following.The brawny
African began at once to examine the footprints along the lake
shore.Udder footprints walk away, but not um Massah Dick."Do you think he--fell into the lake?""Perhaps, Massah Tom--or maybe he get into boat.""I don't know of any boats around here--do
you?""No," returned the young man from Yale."But the natives living
in the vicinity may have them.""Perhaps a native dun carry him off," said Aleck."He must be
sumwhar, dat am certain.""Yes, he must be somewhere," repeated Tom sadly.By this time Sam and Randolph Rover were coming up, and also one
of Dick Chester's friends.The college students were introduced
to the others by Tom, and then a general hunt began for Dick,
which lasted until the shades of night had fallen.But poor Dick
was not found, and all wondered greatly what had, become of him.Tom and the others retired at ten o'clock.But not to sleep, for
with Dick missing none of the Rovers could close an eye."We must
find him in the morning," said Sam.CHAPTER XXV

DICK AND THE LION


When poor Dick came to his senses he was lying in a heap on the
decayed leaves at the bottom of the hollow between the rocks.The
stuff Josiah Crabtree had thrown down still lay on top, of him,
and it was a wonder that he had not been smothered.was the first thought which crossed his
confused mind.He tried to sit up, but found this impossible
until he had scattered the dead leaves and tree branches.Even
then he was so bewildered that he hardly knew what to do,
excepting to stare around at his strange surroundings.Slowly the
truth dawned upon him--how Josiah Crabtree had struck him down
on the lake shore."He must have brought me here," he murmured.Although Dick did not know it, he had been at the bottom of the
hollow all evening and all night.The sun was now up once more,
but it was a day later than he imagined.The hollow was damp and full of ants and other insects, and as
soon as he felt able the youth got up.There was a big lump
behind his left ear where the stick had descended, and this hurt
not a little."I'll get square with him some day," he muttered, as he tried to
crawl out of the hollow."He has more courage to play the villain
than I gave him credit for.Sometime I'll face him again, and
then things will be different."It was no easy matter to get out of the hollow.The sides were
steep and slippery, and four times poor Dick tried, only to slip
back to the bottom.He was about to try a fifth time, when a
sound broke upon his ears which caused him great alarm.From only
a short distance away came the muffled roar of a lion.Dick had never heard, this sound out in the open before, but he
had heard it a number of times at the circus and at the menagerie
in Central Park, New York, and he recognized the roar only too
well.I trust he isn't coming this
way!"But he was coming that way, as Dick soon discovered.A few
seconds of silence were followed by another roar which to, the
alarmed youth appeared to come from almost over his head.Then
came a low whine, which was kept up for fully a minute, followed
by another roar.Dick hardly knew what was best--to remain at
the bottom of the hollow or try to escape to some tree at the top
of the opening."If I go up now he may nab me on sight," he
thought dismally."Oh, if only I had my--thank Heaven, I have!"Dick had felt for his pistol before, to find it gone.But now he
spotted the glint of the shiny barrel among the leaves.The
weapon had fallen from his person at the time Crabtree had pitched
him into the hollow.He reached for it, and to his joy found that
it was fully loaded and ready for use.Presently he heard the bushes overhead thrust aside, and then came
a half roar, half whine that made him jump.Looking up, he saw a
lion standing on the edge of the hollow facing him.The monarch of the forest was holding one of his forepaws up and
now he sat down on his haunches to lick the limb.Then he set up
another whine and shook the limb painfully."He has hurt that paw," thought Dick.Yes, he did see, just at that instant, and started back in
astonishment.Then his face took on a fierce look and he gave a
roar which could be heard for miles around.It was the report of Dick's pistol, but the youth was
nervous, and the bullet merely glanced along the lion's body,
doing little or no damage.The beast roared again, then crouched
down and prepared to leap upon the youth.But the wounded forepaw was a hindrance to the lion's movements,
and he began to crawl along the hollow's edge, seeking a better
point from which to make a leap.Then Dick's pistol spoke up a second time.This shot was a far better one, and the bullet passed directly
through the knee-joint of the lion's left forepaw.He was now
wounded in both fore limbs, and set up a roar which seemed to
fairly make the jungle tremble.Twice he started to leap down
into the hollow, but each time retreated to shake one wounded limb
after another into the air with whines of pain and distress.As soon as the great beast reappeared once more Dick continued his
firing.Soon his pistol was empty, but the lion had not been hit
again.In nervous haste the lad started to re-load only to find
that his cartridge box was empty.he yelled at the lion, and threw a stone at the beast.But the lion was now determined to descend into the hollow, and
paused only to calculate a sure leap to the boy's head.But that pause, brief as it was, was fatal to the calculations of
the monarch of the jungle.From his rear came two shots in rapid
succession, each hitting him in a vulnerable portion of his body.He leaped up into the air, rolled over on the edge of the hollow,
and then came down, head first, just grazing Dick's arm, and
landing at the boy's feet, stone dead."And so did I," came from Randolph Rover.cried Dick, with all the strength he could
command.He was shaking like a reed in the wind and all of the
color had deserted his face."I told you that I had heard several
pistol shots."Rover presented themselves at the top of the
hollow, followed by Aleck and Cujo.The latter procured a rope
made of twisted vines, and by this Dick was raised up without much
difficulty.CHAPTER XXVI

THE LAST OF JOSIAH CRABTREE


All listened intently to the story Dick had to tell, and he had
not yet finished when Dick Chester presented himself, having been
attracted to the vicinity by the roars of the lion and the various
pistol and gun shots."This Crabtree must certainly be as bad as you represent," he
said."I will have a talk with him when I get back to our camp.""It won't be necessary for you to talk to him," answered Dick
grimly."If you'll allow me, I'll do the talking."Chester and Cujo descended into the hollow to examine the lion.There was a bullet in his right foreleg which Chester proved had
come from his rifle."He must be the beast Frank Rand and I fired
at from across the lake.Probably he had his home in the hollow
and limped over to it during the night.""In that case you are entitled to your fair share of the meat--if
you wish any," said Randolph Rover with a smile."But I think
the pelt goes to Tom, for he fired the shot that was really
fatal."And that skin did go to Tom, and lies on his parlor floor
at home today."Several of the students from Yale had been out on a long tour the
afternoon before, in the direction, of the mountain, and they had
reported meeting several natives who had seen King Susko.He was
reported to have but half a dozen of his tribe with him, including
a fellow known as Poison Eye."That's a bad enough title for anybody," said Sam with a shudder."I suppose his job is to poison their enemies if they can't
overcome them in regular battle.""Um tell de thruf," put in Cujo."Once de Mimi tribe fight King
Susko, and whip him.Den Susko send Poison Eye to de Mimi camp.Next day all drink-water get bad, an' men, women, an' children die
off like um flies.""And why didn't they slay the poisoner?""Eberybody 'fraid to touch him--'fraid he be poisoned.""I'd run my chances--providing I had a knife or a club,"
muttered Tom."Such rascals are not fit to live."Dick, as can readily be imagined, was hungry, and before the party
started back for the lake, the youth was provided with some food
which Aleck had very thoughtfully carried with him.It was learned that the two parties were encamped not far apart,
and Dick Chester said he would bring his friends to, see them
before the noon hour was passed."I don't believe he will bring Josiah Crabtree," said Tom."I
reckon Crabtree will take good care to keep out of sight."When Chester came over with his friends he said
that the former teacher of Putnam Hall was missing, having left
word that he was going around the lake to look for a certain
species of flower which so far they had been unable to add to
their specimens."But he will have to come back," said the Vale student."He has
no outfit with which to go it alone."Crabtree put in an appearance just before the sun
set over the jungle to the westward.He presented a most woebegone
appearance, having fallen into a muddy swamp on his face."I--I met with an--an unfortunate accident," he said to
Chester."I fell into the--ahem--mud, and it was only with
great difficulty that I managed to--er--to extricate myself.""Josiah Crabtree, you didn't expect to see me here, did you?"said
Dick sternly, as he stepped forward.And then the others of his
party also came out from where they had been hiding in the brush.The former teacher of Putnam Hall started as if confronted by a
ghost."Why--er--where did you come from, Rover?""You know well enough where I came from, Josiah Crabtree," cried
Dick wrathfully."You dropped me into the hollow for dead, didn't
you!""Why, I--er--that--is--" stammered Crabtree; but could
actually go no further."Don't waste words on him, Dick," put in Tom."Give him the
thrashing he deserves.""If we were in America I would
have you locked up.But out here we must take the law into our
own hands.I am going to thrash you to the very best of my
ability, and after that, if I meet you again I'll--I'll--"

"Dun shoot him on sight," suggested Aleck."Chester--Rand--will you not aid me against this--er--savage
young brute?""Don't you call Dick a brute," put in Sam."If there is any brute here it is you, and everyone in our party
will back up what I say."Crabtree, I have nothing to say in this matter," said Dick
Chester."It would seem that your attack on Rover was a most
atrocious one, and out here you will have to take what punishment
comes.""But you will help me, won't you, Rand?"pleaded the former
teacher, nervously."No, I shall stand by Chester," answered Rand."And will you, too, see me humiliated?"asked Crabtree, turning to
the other Yale students."I, the head of your expedition into
equatorial Africa!"Crabtree, we may as well come to an understanding," said one
of the students, a heavyset young man named Sanders."We hired
you to do certain work for us, and we paid you well for that work.Since we left America you have found fault with nearly everything,
and in a good many instances which I need not recall just now you
have not done as you agreed.You are not the learned scientist
you represented yourself to be--instead, if we are to believe
our newly made friends here, you are a pretender, a big sham, and
a brute in the bargain.This being so, we intend to dispense with
your services from this day forth.We will pay you what is coming
to you, give you your share of our outfit, and then you can go
your way and we will go ours.We absolutely want nothing more to
do with you."This long speech on Sanders' part was delivered amid a deathlike
silence.As the student went on, Josiah Crabtree bit his lip
until the blood came.Once his baneful eyes fairly flashed fire
at Sanders and then at Dick Rover, but then they fell to the
ground."And so you--ahem--throw me off," he said, drawing a long
breath.But I demand all that is coming to me.""And a complete outfit, so that I can make my way back to the
coast.""All that is coming to you--no more and no less," said Sanders
firmly."But he shan't go without that thrashing!"cried Dick, and
catching up a long whip he had had Cujo cut for him he leaped upon
Josiah Crabtree and brought down the lash with stinging effect
across the former teacher's face, leaving a livid mark that
Crabtree was doomed to wear to the day of his death.And there is another for the way you treated Stanhope, and
another for what you did to Dora, and one for Tom, and another for
Sam, and another--"

"Oh!shrieked Crabtree, trying
to run away."Don't--I will be cut to pieces!And as the lash came down over his head, neck, and shoulders, he
danced madly around in pain.At last he broke for cover and
disappeared, not to show himself again until morning, when he
called Chester to him, asked for and received, what was coming to
him, and departed, vowing vengeance on the Rovers and all of the
others."He will remember you for that, Dick," said Sam, when the affair
was over."Let him be--I am not afraid of him," responded the elder
brother.CHAPTER XXVII

THE JOURNEY TO THE MOUNTAIN


By noon of the day following the Rover expedition was on its way
to the mountain said to be so rich in gold.The students from
Yale went with them."It's like a romance, this search after your father," said Chester
to Dick.You can rest assured that our
party will do all we can for you.Specimen hunting is all well
enough, but man hunting is far more interesting.""I would like to go on a regular hunt for big game some day," said
Tom.He had already mentioned Mortimer Blaze to the Yale
students."Yes, that's nice--if you are a crack shot, like Sanders.He
can knock the spots from a playing card at a hundred yards.""Maybe he's a Western boy," laughed Sam.His father owns a big cattle ranch there, and Sanders
learned to shoot while rounding up cattle.He's a tip-top
fellow."They had passed over a small plain and were now working along a
series of rough rocks overgrown with scrub brush and creeping
vines full of thorns.The thorns stuck everybody but Cujo, who
knew exactly how to avoid them."Ise dun got scratched in'steen thousand places," groaned Aleck."Dis am worse dan a bramble bush twice ober, by golly!"For two days the united expeditions kept on their way up the
mountain side,  which sloped gradually at its base, the steeper
portion still being several days' journey distant.During these days they shot several wild animals including a
beautiful antelope, while Sam caught a monkey.But the monkey bit
the boy in the shoulder, and Sam was glad enough to get rid of the
mischievous creature.On the afternoon of the second day Cujo, who was slightly in
advance of the others, called a halt."Two men ahead ob us, up um mountain," he said."Cujo Vink one of
dern King Susko."The discovery was talked over for a few minutes, and it was
decided that Cujo should go ahead, accompanied by Randolph Rover
and Dick.The others were to remain on guard for anything which
might turn up.Dick felt his heart beat rapidly as he advanced with his uncle and
the African guide through the tangle of thorns and over the rough
rocks.He felt that by getting closer to King Susko, he was also
getting closer to the mystery which surrounded his father's
disappearance."See, da is gwine up
into a big hole in de side ob de mountain?""Can you make out if it is Susko or not?""Not fo' certain, Massah Dick.But him belong to de Burnwo tribe,
an' de udder man too.""If they are all alone it will be an easy matter to capture them,"
said Randolph Rover."All told, we are twelve to two.""Come on, and we'll soon know something worth knowing, I feel
certain of it."Cujo now asked that he be allowed to proceed alone, to make
certain that no others of the Burnwo tribe were in the vicinity."We must be werry careful," he said."Burnwos kill eberybody wot
da find around here if not dare people.""Evidently they want to keep the whole mountain of gold to
themselves," observed Dick."All right, Cujo, do as you think
best--I know we can rely upon you."After this they proceeded with more care than ever-along a rocky
edge covered with loose stones.To one side was the mountain, to
the other a sheer descent of several hundred feet, and the
footpath was not over a yard wide."A tumble here would be a serious matter," said Randolph Rover."Take good care, Dick, that you don't step on a rolling stone."But the ledge was passed in safety, and in fifteen minutes more
they were close to the opening is the side of the mountain.It
was an irregular hole about ten feet wide and twice as high.The
a rocks overhead stuck out for several yards, and from these hung
numerous vines, forming a sort of Japanese curtain over the
opening.While the two Rovers waited behind a convenient rock, Cujo crawled
forward on his hand and knees into the cave.They waited for ten
minutes, just then it seemed an hour, but he did not reappear."He is taking his time," whispered Dick."Perhaps something has happened to him," returned Randolph Rover."I've had my pistol ready all along," answered the boy, exhibiting
the weapon."That encounter with the lion taught me a lesson.Dick broke off short, for a sound on the rocks above the cave
entrance had reached his ears.Both gazed in the direction, but
could see nothing."I heard a rustling in the bushes up there perhaps, though, it was
only a bird or some small animal.""Neither can I; but I am certain--Out of sight, Uncle Randolph,
quick!"Dick caught his uncle by the arm, and both threw themselves flat
behind the rocks.Scarcely had they gone down than two spears
came whizzing forward, one hitting the rocks and the other sailing
over their heads and burying itself in a tree trunk several yards
away.They caught a glance of two natives on the rocks over them,
but with the launching of the spears the Africans disappeared.CHAPTER XXVIII

KING SUSKO


"My gracious, this is getting at close range!"burst out Dick,
when he could catch his breath again."Uncle Randolph, they meant
to kill us!"Take care that they do not spear
you."No reply came back to this call, which was several times repeated.Then came a crash, as a big stone was hurled down, to split into a
score of pieces on the rock which sheltered them."They mean to dislodge us," said Dick."If they would only show
themselves--"

He stopped, for he had seen one of the Bumwos peering over a mass
of short brush directly over the cave entrance.Taking hasty aim
with his pistol be fired.A yell of pain followed, proving that the African had been hit.But the Bumwo was not seriously wounded, and soon he sent another
stone at them, this time hitting Randolph Rover on the leg.gasped Dick's uncle, and drew up that member with a wry
face."Did he hurt you much, Uncle Randolph?"And now the man
fired, but the bullet flew wide of its mark, for Randolph Rover
had practiced but little with firearms.They now thought it time to retreat, and, watching their chance,
they ran from the rocks to the trees beyond.While they were
exposed another spear was sent after them, cutting its way through
Mr.Rover's hat brim and causing that gentleman to turn as pale as
a sheet."A few inches closer and it would have been my head!"Perhaps we
had better rejoin the others, Dick."The shots had alarmed the others of the expedition, and all were
hurrying along the rocky ledge when Randolph Rover and Dick met
them."If you go ahead
we may be caught in an ambush.The Bumwos have discovered our
presence and mean to kill us if they can!"Suddenly a loud, deep voice broke upon them, coming from the rocks
over the cave entrance."This
country belongs to the Bumwos."I am King Susko, chief of the Bumwos.""Will you come and have a talk with us?"Want the white man to leave," answered the
African chief, talking in fairly good English."We do not wish to quarrel with you, King Susko; but you will find
it best for you if you will grant us an interview," went on
Randolph Rover."The white man must go away from this mountain.I will not talk
with him," replied the African angrily."To rob the Bumwos of their gold.""No; we are looking for a lost man, one who came to this country
years ago and one who was your prisoner--"

"The white man is no longer here--he went home long time ago.""You have him a prisoner, and
unless you deliver him up you shall suffer dearly for it."This threat evidently angered the African chief greatly, for
suddenly a spear was launched at the boy, which pierced Tom's
shoulder.As Tom went down, a shout went up from the rocks, and suddenly a
dozen or more Bumwos appeared, shaking their spears and acting as
if they meant to rush down on the party below without further
warning.CHAPTER XXIX

THE VILLAGE ON THE MOUNTAIN


"Tom is wounded!"He ran to his brother, to find the
blood flowing freely over Tom's shoulder."I--I guess not," answered Tom with a gasp of pain.Then, as
full of pluck as usual, Tom raised his pistol and fired, hitting
one of the Bumwos in the breast and sending him to the rear,
seriously wounded.It was evident that Cujo had been mistaken and that there were far
more of their enemies around the mountain than they had
anticipated.From behind the Rover expedition a cry arose,
telling that more of the natives were coming from that direction."We are being hemmed in," said Dick Chester nervously."No, let us make a stand," came from Rand."I think a concerted
volley from our pistols and guns will check their movements."It was decided to await the closer approach of the Bumwos, and
each of the party improved the next minute in seeing to it that
his weapon was ready for use.Suddenly a blood-curdling yell arose on the sultry air, and the
Bumwos were seen to be approaching from two directions, at right
angles to each other.cried Dick Rover, and began to fire at one
of the approaching forces.The fight that followed was, however, short and full of
consternation to the Africans.One of the parties was led by King
Susko himself, and the chief had covered less than half the
distance to where the Americans stood when a bullet from Tom
Rover's pistol reached him, wounding him in the thigh and causing
him to pitch headlong on the grass.The fall of the leader made the Africans set up a howl of dismay,
and instead of keeping up the fight they gathered around their
leader.Then, as the Americans continued to fire, they picked
King Susko up and ran off with him.A few spears were hurled at
our friends, but the whole battle, to use Sam's way of summing up
afterward, was a regular "two-for-a-cent affair."Soon the Bumwos
were out of sight down the mountain side.The first work of our friends after they had made certain that the
Africans had really retreated, was to attend to Tom's wound and
the bruise Randolph Rover had received from the stone.Fortunately
neither man nor boy was seriously hurt, although Tom carries the
mark of the spear's thrust to this day."But I don't care," said Tom."I hit old King Susko, and that was
worth a good deal, for it stopped the battle.If the fight had
kept on there is no telling how many of us might have been
killed."While the party was deliberating about what to do next, Cujo
reappeared."I go deep into de cabe when foah Bumwos come on me from behind,"
he explained."Da fight an' fight an' knock me down an' tie me wid vines, an'
den run away.But I broke loose from de vines an' cum just as
quick as could run.Werry big cabe dat, an' strange waterfall in
de back.""Let us explore the cave," said Dick."Somebody can remain on
guard outside."Some demurred to this, but the Rover boys could, not be held back,
and on they went, with Aleck with them.Soon Randolph Rover
hobbled after them, leaving Cujo and the college students to
remain on the watch.The cave proved to be a large affair, running all of half a mile
under the mountain.There were numerous holes in the roof,
through which the sun shone down, making the use of torches
unnecessary.To one side was a deep and swiftly flowing stream,
coming from the waterfall Cujo had mentioned, and disappearing
under the rocks near the entrance to the cavern.shouted Dick, as he gazed on the walls of the
cave."You are, Dick; this is a regular cave of gold, and no mistake.No wonder King Susko wanted to keep us away!"It was a fascinating scene to
watch the sparkling sheet as it thundered downward a distance of
fully a hundred feet.At the bottom was a pool where the water
was lashed into a milky foam which went swirling round and round.suddenly cried Sam, and pointed into
the falling water."Oh, Uncle Randolph, did you ever see anything
like it?""There are no such things as ghosts, Sam," replied his uncle."Stand here and look," answered Sam, and his uncle did as
requested.Presently from out of the mist came the form of a man--the
likeness of Randolph Rover himself!"It is nothing but an optical illusion, Sam, such as are produced
by some magicians on the theater stage.The sun comes down
through yonder hole and reflects your image on the wet rock, which
in turn reflects the form on the sheet of water."And that must be the ghost the natives believe in,"
answered Sam.I can tell you I was
startled.""Here is a path leading up past the waterfall," said Dick, who had
been making an investigation."Take care of where you go," warned Randolph Rover."There may be
some nasty pitfall there.""I'll keep my eyes open," responded Dick.He ascended the rocks, followed by Sam, while the others brought
up in the rear.Up over the waterfall was another cave, long and
narrow.There was now but little light from overhead, but far in
the distance could be seen a long, narrow opening, as if the
mountain top had been, by some convulsion of nature, split in
half."We are coming into the outer world again!"For beyond the opening was a small plain, covered with short grass
and surrounded on every side by jagged rocks which arose to the
height of fifty or sixty feet.In the center of the plain were a
number of native huts, of logs thatched with palm.CHAPTER XXX

FINDING THE LONG-LOST


"A village!""There are several women and children," returned Tom, pointing to
one of the huts."I guess the men went away to fight us."Let us investigate, but with
caution."As they advanced, the women and children set up a cry of alarm,
which was quickly taken up in several of the other huts."Go away, white men; don't touch us!"cried a voice in the purest
English.came from the three Rover boys, and they rushed off in
all haste toward the nut from which the welcome cry had proceeded.Anderson Rover was found in the center of the hut, bound fast by a
heavy iron chain to a post set deeply into the ground.His face
was haggard and thin and his beard was all of a foot and a half
long, while his hair fell thickly over his shoulders.He was
dressed in the merest rags, and had evidently suffered much from
starvation and from other cruel treatment."Do I see aright, or
is it only another of those wild dreams that have entered my brain
lately?"burst out Dick, and hugged his parent
around the neck."It's no dream, father; we are really here," put in Tom, as he
caught one of the slender hands, while Sam caught the other.And then he added tenderly: "But
we'll take good care of you, now we have found you."murmured Anderson Rover, as the brother came up.and the tears began to
flow down his cheeks.Many a time I
thought to give up in despair!""We came as soon as we got that message you sent," answered Dick."But that was long after you had sent it.""And is the sailor, Converse, safe?""Too bad--he was the one friend I had here.""And King Susko has kept you a prisoner all this while?""Yes; and he has treated me shamefully in the bargain.He
imagined I knew all of the secrets of this mountain, of a gold
mine of great riches, and he would not let me go; but, instead,
tried to wring the supposed secret from me by torture.""We will settle accounts with him some day," muttered Dick."It's
a pity Tom didn't kill him."The native women and children were looking in at the doorway
curiously, not knowing what to say or do.Turning swiftly, Dick
caught one by the arm."The key to the lock," he demanded, pointing to the lock on the
iron chain which bound Anderson Rover.But the woman shook her head, and pointed off in the distance."King Susko has the key," explained Anderson Rover."You will
have to break the chain,"  And this was at last done, although not
without great difficulty.In the meantime the natives were ordered to prepare a meal for
Anderson Rover and all of the others, and Cujo was called that he
might question the Africans in their own language.The meal was soon forthcoming, the Bumwo women fearing that they
would be slaughtered if they did not comply with the demands of
the whites.To make sure that the food had not been poisoned,
Dick made several of the natives eat portions of each dish."Um know a good deal," he remarked."Cujo was goin' to tell Dick to do dat.""I am glad the women and children are here," said Randolph Rover."We can take them with us when we leave and warn King Susko that
if he attacks us we will kill them.I think he will rather let us
go than see all of the women and children slaughtered."While they ate, Anderson Rover told his story, which is far too
long to insert here.He had found a gold mine further up the
country and also this mountain of gold, but had been unable to do
anything since King Susko had made him and the sailor prisoners.During his captivity he had suffered untold cruelties, but all
this was now forgotten in the joy of the reunion with his brother
and his three sons.It was decided that the party should leave the mountain without
delay, and Cujo told the female natives to get ready to move.At
this they set up a loud protest, but it availed them nothing, and
they soon quieted down when assured that no harm would befall them
if they behaved.CHAPTER XXXI

HOME AGAIN--CONCLUSION


Nightfall found the entire expedition, including the women and
children, on the mountain side below the caves.As the party went
down the mountain a strict watch was kept for the Bumwo warriors,
and just as the sun was setting, they were discovered in camp on
the trail to the northwest."We will send out a flag of truce," said Randolph Rover.This was done, and presently a tall Bumwo under chief came out in
a plain to hold a mujobo, or "law talk."In a few words Cujo explained the situation, stating that they now
held in bondage eighteen women and children, including King
Susko's favorite wife Afgona.If the whites were allowed to pass
through the country unharmed until they, reached the village of
Kwa, where the Kassai River joins the Congo, they would release
all of the women and children at that point and they could go back
to rejoin their husbands and fathers.If, on the other hand, the
expedition was attacked the whites would put all of those in
bondage to instant death.It is not likely that this horrible threat would have been put
into execution.As Dick said when relating the particulars of the
affair afterward."We couldn't have done such a terrible thing,
for it would not have been human."But the threat had the desired
effect, and in the morning King Susko, who was now on a sick bed,
sent word that they should go through unmolested.And go through they did, through jungles and over plains, across
rivers and lakes and treacherous swamps, watching continually for
their enemies, and bringing down many a savage beast that showed
itself.On the return they fell in with Mortimer Blaze, and he,
being a crack shot, added much to the strength of their command.At last Kwa was reached, and here they found themselves under the
protection of several European military organizations.The native
women and children were released, much to their joy, and my
readers can rest assured that these Africans lost no time in
getting back to that portion of the Dark Continent which they
called home.From Kwa to Boma the journey was comparatively easy.At Stanley
Pool they rested for a week, and all in the party felt the better
for it."Some day I will go back and open up the mines I have discovered,"
said Anderson Rover.I want to see my own dear
native land first."Josiah Crabtree had turned up and been
joined by Dan Baxter, and both had left for parts unknown."I hope we never see them again," said Dick, and his brothers said
the same.An American ship was in port, bound for Baltimore, and all of our
party, including the Yale students, succeeded in obtaining passage
on her for home.The trip was a most delightful one, and no days
could have been happier than those which the Rover boys spent
grouped around their lather listening to all he had to tell of the
numerous adventures which had befallen him since he had left home.A long letter was written to Captain Townsend, telling of the
finding of Anderson Rover, and the master of the Rosabel was,
later on, sent a gift of one hundred dollars for his goodness to
the Rovers.Of course Anderson Rover was greatly interested in what his sons
had been doing and was glad to learn that they were progressing so
finely at Putnam Hall."We will let Arnold Baxter drop," he said."He is our enemy, I know; but just now we will let the law take
its course for the rascality he practiced in Albany.""We can afford to let him
drop, seeing how well things have terminated for ourselves.""And how happy we are going to be," chimed in Sam."And how rich--when father settles up that mining claim in the
West," put in Tom.Here I must bring to a finish the story of the Rover boys'
adventures in the jungles of Africa.They had started out to find
their father, and they had found him, and for the time being all
went well.The home-coming of the Rovers was the occasion of a regular
celebration at Valley Brook farm.The neighbors came in from far
and wide and with them several people from the city who in former
years had known Anderson Rover well.It was a time never to be forgotten, and the celebration was kept
up for several days.Captain Putnam was there, and with him came
Frank, Fred, Larry, and several others.The captain apologized
handsomely to Aleck for the way he had treated the <DW52> man."I wish I had been with you," said Fred."You Rover boys are
wonders for getting around."I think we'll go West next," answered Dick."Father wants to
look up his mining interests, you know.We are going to ask him
to take us along."They did go west, and what adventures they had
will be related in a new volume, entitled "The Rover Boys Out West;
or, The Search for a Lost Mine.""But we are coming back to Putnam Hall first," added Tom.I thought of it even in the heart of Africa!""And so did I," put in Sam."I'll tell you, fellows, it's good
enough to roam around, but, after all, there is no place like
home."And with this truthful remark from the youngest Rover, let us
close this volume, kind reader, hoping that all of us may meet
again in the next book of the series, to be entitled, "The Rover
Boys Out West; or, The Search for a Lost Mine."In this story all
of our friends will once more play important parts, and we will
learn what the Baxters, father and son, did toward wresting the
Rover Boys' valuable mining property from them.But for the time
being all went well, and so good-by.The work was re-issued in 1775 with the new title “Die Geschichte eines
empfundenen Tages.”[25] The only change in the new edition was the
addition of a number of copperplate engravings.The book is inspired in
part by Sterne directly, and in part indirectly through the intermediary
Jacobi.Unlike the work of Schummel just treated, it betrays no Shandean
influence, but is dependent solely on the Sentimental Journey.In
outward form the book resembles Jacobi’s “Winterreise,” since verse is
introduced to vary the prose narrative.The attitude of the author
toward his journey, undertaken with conscious purpose, is characteristic
of the whole set of emotional sentiment-seekers, who found in their
Yorick a challenge to go and do likewise: “Everybody is journeying,
I thought, and took Yorick and Jacobi with me.I will really see
whether I too may not chance upon a _fille de chambre_ or a
harvest-maid,” is a very significant statement of his inspiration and
intention.Once started on his journey, the author falls in with a poor
warrior-beggar, an adaptation of Sterne’s Chevalier de St.Louis,[26]
and he puts in verse Yorick’s expressed sentiment that the king and the
fatherland should not allow the faithful soldier to fall into such
distress.Bock’s next sentimental adventure is with a fair peasant-maid whom he
sees weeping by the wayside.Through Yorick-like insistence of sympathy,
he finally wins from her information concerning the tender situation:
a stern stepfather, an unwelcome suitor of his choosing, and a lover of
her own.Her inability to write and thus communicate with the latter is
the immediate cause of the present overflow.The traveler beholds in
this predicament a remarkable sentimental opportunity and offers his
services; he strokes her cheek, her tears are dried, and they part like
brother and sister.The episode is unquestionably inspired by the
episode of Maria of Moulines; in the latter development of the affair,
the sentiment, which is expressed, that the girl’s innocence is her own
defense is borrowed directly from Yorick’s statement concerning the
_fille de chambre_.[27] The traveler’s questioning of his own motives in
“Die Ueberlegung”[28] is distinctly Sterne-like, and it demonstrates
also Bock’s appreciation of this quizzical element in Yorick’s attitude
toward his own sentimental behavior.The relation of man to the domestic
animals is treated sentimentally in the episode of the old beggar and
his dead dog:[29] the tears of the beggar, his affection for the beast,
their genuine comradeship, and the dog’s devotion after the world had
forsaken his master, are all part and parcel of that fantastic humane
movement which has its source in Yorick’s dead ass.Bock practically
confesses his inspiration by direct allusion to the episode in Yorick.Bock defends with warmth the old peasant and his grief.The wanderer’s acquaintance with the lady’s companion[30] is adapted
from Yorick’s _fille de chambre_ connection, and Bock cannot avoid a
fleshly suggestion, distinctly in the style of Yorick in the section,
the “Spider.”[31] The return journey in the sentimental moonlight
affords the author another opportunity for the exercise of his broad
human sympathy: he meets a poor woman, a day-laborer with her child,
gives them a few coins and doubts whether king or bishop could be more
content with the benediction of the apostolic chair than he with the
blessing of this unfortunate,--a sentiment derived from Yorick’s
overcolored veneration for the horn snuff-box.The churchyard scene with which the journey ends is more openly
fanciful, down-right visionary in tone, but the manner is very
emphatically not that of Sterne, though in the midst the Sterne motif of
nettle-plucking is introduced.This sentimental episode took hold of
German imagination with peculiar force.The hobby-horse idea also was
sure of its appeal, and Bock did not fail to fall under its spell.[32]

But apart from the general impulse and borrowing of motif from the
foreign novel, there is in this little volume considerable that is
genuine and original: the author’s German patriotism, his praise of the
old days in the Fatherland in the chapter entitled “Die Gaststube,” his
“Trinklied eines Deutschen,” his disquisition on the position of the
poet in the world (“ein eignes Kapitel”), and his adulation of Gellert
at the latter’s grave.The reviewer in the _Deutsche Bibliothek der
schönen Wissenschaften_[33] chides the unnamed, youthful author for not
allowing his undeniable talents to ripen to maturity, for being led on
by Jacobi’s success to hasten his exercises into print.In reality Bock
was no longer youthful (forty-six) when the “Tagereise” was published.The _Almanach der deutschen Musen_ for 1771, calls the book “an
unsuccessful imitation of Yorick and Jacobi,” and wishes that this
“Rhapsodie von Cruditäten” might be the last one thrust on the market as
a “Sentimental Journey.” The _Allgemeine deutsche Bibliothek_[34]
comments also on the double inspiration, and the insufficiency and
tiresomeness of the performance.And yet Boie[35] says the papers
praised the little book; for himself, however, he observes, he little
desires to read it, and adds “What will our Yoricks yet come to?At last
they will get pretty insignificant, I think, if they keep on this way.”

Bock was also the author of a series of little volumes written in the
early seventies, still under the sentimental charm: (1) Empfindsame
Reise durch die Visitenzimmer am Neujahrstag von einem deutschen Yorick
angestellt, Cosmopolis (Hamburg) 1771--really published at the end of
the previous year; (2) . . .am Ostertage, 1772; (3) Am Pfingsttage,
1772; (4) Am Johannistage, 1773; (5) Am Weynachtstage, 1773.These books
were issued anonymously, and Schröder’s Lexicon gives only (2) and (3)
under Bock’s name, but there seems no good reason to doubt his
authorship of them all.Indeed, his claim to (1) is, according to the
_Frankfurter Gelehrte Anzeigen_, well-nigh proven by an allusion to the
“Tagereise” in the introduction, and by the initials signed.None of
them are given by Goedeke.The books are evidently only in a general way
dependent on the Sterne model, and are composed of observations upon all
sorts of subjects, the first section of each volume bearing some
relation to the festival in which they appear.In the second edition of the first volume the author confesses that the
title only is derived from Yorick,[36] and states that he was forced to
this misuse because no one at that time cared to read anything but
“Empfindsame Reisen.” It is also to be noted that the description
beneath the title, “von einem deutschen Yorick angestellt,” is omitted
after the first volume.The review of (4) and (5) in the _Altonaer
Reichs-Postreuter_ finds this a commendable resumption of proper
humility.The observations are evidently loosely strung together without
the pretense of a narrative, such as “Allgemeines Perspectiv durch alle
Visitenzimmer, Empfindsamer Neujahrswunsch, Empfindsame Berechnung eines
Weisen mit sich selbst, Empfindsame Entschlüsse, Empfindsame Art sein
Geld gut unterzubringen,” etc.[37] An obvious purpose inspires the
writer, the furthering of morality and virtue; many of the meditations
are distinctly religious.That some of the observations had a local
significance in Hamburg, together with the strong sentimental tendency
there, may account for the warm reception by the _Hamburgischer
unpartheyischer Correspondent_.[38]

Some contemporary critics maintained a kinship between Matthias Claudius
and Yorick-Sterne, though nothing further than a similarity of mental
and emotional fibre is suggested.No one claimed an influence working
from the English master.Even as late as 1872, Wilhelm Röseler in his
introductory poem to a study of “Matthias Claudius und sein Humor”[39]
calls Asmus, “Deutschland’s Yorick,” thereby agreeing almost verbally
with the German correspondent of the _Deutsches Museum_, who wrote from
London nearly a hundred years before, September 14, 1778, “Asmus.is the German Sterne,” an assertion which was denied by a later
correspondent, who asserts that Claudius’s manner is very different from
that of Sterne.[40]

August von Kotzebue, as youthful narrator, betrays a dependence on
Sterne in his strange and ingeniously contrived tale, “Die Geschichte
meines Vaters, oder wie es zuging, dass ich gebohren wurde.”[41] The
influence of Sterne is noticeable in the beginning of the story:
he commences with a circumstantial account of his grandfather and
grandmother, and the circumstances of his father’s birth.The
grandfather is an original undoubtedly modeled on lines suggested by
Sterne’s hobby-horse idea.He had been chosen in days gone by to greet
the reigning prince on the latter’s return from a journey, and the old
man harks back to this circumstance with “hobby-horsical” persistence,
whatever the subject of conversation, even as all matters led Uncle Toby
to military fortification, and the elder Shandy to one of his pet
theories.In Schrimps the servant, another Shandean original is designed.When the
news comes of the birth of a son on Mount Vesuvius, master and man
discuss multifarious and irrelevant topics in a fashion reminiscent of
the conversation downstairs in the Shandy mansion while similar events
are going on above.Later in the book we have long lists, or catalogues
of things which resemble one of Sterne’s favorite mannerisms.But the
greater part of the wild, adventurous tale is far removed from its
inception, which presented domestic whimsicality in a gallery of
originals, unmistakably connected with Tristram Shandy.Göschen’s “Reise von Johann”[42] is a product of the late renascence of
sentimental journeying.Master and servant are represented in this book
as traveling through southern Germany, a pair as closely related in head
and heart as Yorick and La Fleur, or Captain Shandy and Corporal Trim.The style is of rather forced buoyancy and sprightliness, with
intentional inconsequence and confusion, an attempt at humor of
narration, which is choked by characteristic national desire to convey
information, and a fatal propensity to description of places,[43] even
when some satirical purpose underlies the account, as in the description
of Erlangen and its university.The servant Johann has mild adventures
with the maids in the various inns, which are reminiscent of Yorick,
and in one case it borders on the openly suggestive and more Shandean
method.[44] A distinctly borrowed motif is the accidental finding of
papers which contain matters of interest.This is twice resorted to;
a former occupant of the room in the inn in Nürnberg had left valuable
notes of travel; and Johann, meeting a ragged woman, bent on
self-destruction, takes from her a box with papers, disclosing a
revolting story, baldly told.German mediocrity, imitating Yorick in
this regard, and failing of his delicacy and subtlety, brought forth
hideous offspring.An attempt at whimsicality of style is apparent in
the “Furth Catechismus in Frage und Antwort” (pp.71-74), and genuinely
sentimental adventures are supplied by the death-bed scene (pp.70-71)
and the village funeral (pp.This book is classed by Ebeling[45] without sufficient reason as an
imitation of von Thümmel.This statement is probably derived from the
letter from Schiller to Goethe to which Ebeling refers in the following
lines.Schiller is writing to Goethe concerning plans for the Xenien,
December 29, 1795.[46] The abundance of material for the Xenien project
is commented upon with enthusiastic anticipation, and in a list of
vulnerable possibilities we read: “Thümmel, Göschen als sein
Stallmeister--” a collocation of names easily attributable, in
consideration of the underlying satiric purpose, to the general nature
of their work, without in any way implying the dependence of one author
on another,[47] or it could be interpreted as an allusion to the fact
that Göschen was von Thümmel’s publisher.Nor is there anything in the
correspondence to justify Ebeling’s harshness in saying concerning this
volume of Göschen, that it “enjoyed the honor of being ridiculed
(verhöhnt) in the Xenien-correspondence between Goethe and Schiller.”
Goethe replies (December 30), in approval, and exclaims, “How fine
Charis and Johann will appear beside one another.”[48] The suggestion
concerning a possible use of Göschen’s book in the Xenien was never
carried out.It will be remembered that Göschen submitted the manuscript of his book
to Schiller, and that Schiller returned the same with the statement
“that he had laughed heartily at some of the whims.[49]” Garve, in a
letter dated March 8, 1875, speaks of Göschen’s book in terms of
moderate praise.[50]

The “Empfindsame Reise von Oldenburg nach Bremen,”[51] the author of
which was a Hanoverian army officer, H. J. C. Hedemann, is characterized
by Ebeling as emphatically not inspired by Sterne.[52] Although it is
not a sentimental journey, as Schummel and Jacobi and Bock conceived it,
and is thus not an example of the earliest period of imitation, and
although it contains no passages of teary sentimentality in attitude
toward man and beast, one must hesitate in denying all connection with
Sterne’s manner.It would seem as if, having outgrown the earlier
Yorick, awakened from dubious, fine-spun dreams of human brotherhood,
perhaps by the rude clatter of the French revolution, certain would-be
men of letters turned to Yorick again and saw, as through a glass
darkly, that other element of his nature, and tried in lumbering,
Teutonic way to adopt his whimsicality, shorn now of sentimentalism, and
to build success for their wares on remembrance of a defaced idol.This
view of later sentimental journeying is practically acknowledged at any
rate in a contemporary review, the _Allgemeine Litteratur-Zeitung_ for
August 22, 1796, which remarks: “A sentimental voyage ist ein Quodlibet,
wo einige bekannte Sachen und Namen gezwungenen Wiz und matten Scherz
heben sollen.”[53]

Hedemann’s book is conspicuous in its effort to be whimsical and is
openly satirical in regard to the sentimentalism of former travelers.His endeavor is markedly in Sterne’s manner in his attitude toward the
writing of the book, his conversation about the difficulty of managing
the material, his discussion with himself and the reader about the
various parts of the book.Quite in Sterne’s fashion, and to be
associated with Sterne’s frequent promises of chapters, and statements
concerning embarrassment of material, is conceived his determination “to
mention some things beforehand about which I don’t know anything to
say,” and his rather humorous enumeration of them.The author satirizes
the real sentimental traveler of Sterne’s earlier imitators in the
following passage (second chapter):

“It really must be a great misfortune, an exceedingly vexatious case,
if no sentimental scenes occur to a sentimental traveler, but this is
surely not the case; only the subjects, which offer themselves must be
managed with strict economy.If one leaps over the most interesting
events entirely, one is in danger, indeed, of losing everything, at
least of not filling many pages.”

Likewise in the following account of a sentimental adventure, the
satirical purpose is evident.He has not gone far on his journey when he
is met by a troop of children; with unsentimental coldness he determines
that there is a “Schlagbaum” in the way.After the children have opened
the barrier, he debates with himself to which child to give his little
coin, concludes, as a “sentimental traveler,” to give it to the other
sex, then there is nothing left to do but to follow his instinct.He
reflects long with himself whether he was right in so doing,--all of
which is a deliberate jest at the hesitation with reference to trivial
acts, the self-examination with regard to the minutiae of past conduct,
which was copied by Sterne’s imitators from numerous instances in the
works of Yorick.Satirical also is his vision in Chapter VII, in which
he beholds the temple of stupidity where lofty stupidity sits on a paper
throne; and of particular significance here is the explanation that the
whole company who do “erhabene Dummheit” honor formerly lived in cities
of the kingdom, but “now they are on journeys.” Further examples of a
humorous manner akin to Sterne are: his statement that it would be a
“great error” to write an account of a journey without weaving in an
anecdote of a prince, his claim that he has fulfilled all duties of such
a traveler save to fall in love, his resolve to accomplish it, and his
formal declaration: “I, the undersigned, do vow and make promise to be
in love before twenty-four hours are past.” The story with which his
volume closes, “Das Ständchen,” is rather entertaining and is told
graphically, easily, without whim or satire, yet not without a Sternian
_double entendre_.[54]

Another work in which sentimentalism has dwindled away to a grinning
shade, and a certain irresponsible, light-hearted attitude is the sole
remaining connection with the great progenitor, is probably the
“Empfindsame Reise nach Schilda” (Leipzig, 1793), by Andreas Geo.von Rabenau, which is reviewed in the _Allgemeine Litteratur-Zeitung_
(1794, I, p.416) as a free revision of an old popular tale, “Das
lustige und lächerliche Lalenburg.” The book is evidently without
sentimental tinge, is a merry combination of wit and joke combined with
caricature and half-serious tilting against unimportant literary
celebrities.[55]

Certain miscellaneous works, which are more or less obviously connected
with Sterne may be grouped together here.To the first outburst of Sterne enthusiasm belongs an anonymous product,
“Zween Tage eines Schwindsüchtigen, etwas Empfindsames,” von L. . . .(Hamburg, 1772), yet the editor admits that the sentiment is “not
entirely like Yorick’s,” and the _Altonaer Reichs-Postreuter_ (July 2,
1772) adds that “not at all like Yorick’s” would have been nearer the
truth.This book is mentioned by Hillebrand with implication that it is
the extreme example of the absurd sentimental tendency, probably judging
merely from the title,[56] for the book is doubtless merely thoughtful,
contemplative, with a minimum of overwrought feeling.According to the _Frankfurter Gelehrte Anzeigen_ (1775, pp.592-3),
another product of the earlier seventies, the “Leben und Schicksale des
Martin Dickius,” by Johann Moritz Schwager, is in many places a clever
imitation of Sterne,[57] although the author claims, like Wezel in
“Tobias Knaut,” not to have read Shandy until after the book was
written.Surely the digression on noses which the author allows himself
is suspicious.Blankenburg, the author of the treatise on the novel to which reference
has been made, was regarded by contemporary and subsequent criticism as
an imitator of Sterne in his oddly titled novel “Beyträge zur Geschichte
des teutschen Reiches und teutscher Sitten,”[58] although the general
tenor of his essay, in reasonableness and balance, seemed to promise a
more independent, a more competent and felicitous performance.Kurz
expresses this opinion, which may have been derived from criticisms in
the eighteenth century journals.The _Frankfurter Gelehrte Anzeigen_,
July 28, 1775, does not, however, take this view; but seems to be in the
novel a genuine exemplification of the author’s theories as previously
expressed.[59] The _Allgemeine deutsche Bibliothek_[60] calls the book
didactic, a tract against certain essentially German follies.Merck, in
the _Teutscher Merkur_,[61] says the imitation of Sterne is quite too
obvious, though Blankenburg denies it.Among miscellaneous and anonymous works inspired directly by Sterne,
belongs undoubtedly “Die Geschichte meiner Reise nach Pirmont” (1773),
the author of which claims that it was written before Yorick was
translated or Jacobi published.He says he is not worthy to pack
Yorick’s bag or weave Jacobi’s arbor,[62] but the review of the
_Almanach der deutschen Musen_ evidently regards it as a product,
nevertheless, of Yorick’s impulse.Kuno Ridderhoff in his study of Frau
la Roche[63] says that the “Empfindsamkeit” of Rosalie in the first part
of “Rosaliens Briefe” is derived from Yorick.The “Leben, Thaten und
Meynungen des D. J. Pet.Menadie” (Halle, 1777-1781) is charged by the
_Allgemeine deutsche Bibliothek_ with attempt at Shandy-like
eccentricity of narrative and love of digression.[64]

One little volume, unmistakably produced under Yorick’s spell, is worthy
of particular mention because at its time it received from the reviewers
a more cordial welcome than was accorded to the rank and file of
Sentimental Journeys.It is “M . . ..” by E. A. A. von Göchhausen
(1740-1824), which was published at Eisenach, 1772, and was deemed
worthy of several later editions.Its dependence on Sterne is confessed
and obvious, sometimes apologetically and hesitatingly, sometimes
defiantly.The imitation of Sterne is strongest at the beginning, both
in outward form and subject-matter, and this measure of indebtedness
dwindles away steadily as the book advances.Göchhausen, as other
imitators, used at the outset a modish form, returned to it consciously
now and then when once under way, but when he actually had something to
say, a message of his own, found it impracticable or else forgot to
follow his model.The absurd title stands, of course, for “Meine Reisen” and the puerile
abbreviation as well as the reasons assigned for it, were intended to be
a Sterne-like jest, a pitiful one.Why Goedeke should suggest “Meine
Randglossen” is quite inexplicable, since Göchhausen himself in the very
first chapter indicates the real title.Beneath the enigmatical title
stands an alleged quotation from Shandy: “Ein Autor borgt, bettelt und
stiehlt so stark von dem andern, dass bey meiner Seele!die Originalität
fast so rar geworden ist als die Ehrlichkeit.”[65] The book itself, like
Sterne’s Journey, is divided into brief chapters unnumbered but named.As the author loses Yorick from sight, the chapters grow longer.Göchhausen has availed himself of an odd device to disarm
criticism,--a plan used once or twice by Schummel: occasionally when the
imitation is obvious, he repudiates the charge sarcastically, or
anticipates with irony the critics’ censure.For example, he gives
directions to his servant Pumper to pack for the journey; a reader
exclaims, “a portmanteau, Mr.Author, so that everything, even to that,
shall be just like Yorick,” and in the following passage the author
quarrels with the critics who allow no one to travel with a portmanteau,
because an English clergyman traveled with one.Pumper’s
misunderstanding of this objection is used as a farther ridicule of the
critics.When on the journey, the author converses with two poor
wandering monks, whose conversation, at any rate, is a witness to their
content, the whole being a legacy of the Lorenzo episode, and the author
entitles the chapter: “The members of the religious order, or, as some
critics will call it, a wretchedly unsuccessful imitation.” In the next
chapter, “Der Visitator” (pp.in which the author encounters
customs annoyances, the critic is again allowed to complain that
everything is stolen from Yorick, a protest which is answered by the
author quite naïvely, “Yorick journeyed, ate, drank; I do too.” In “Die
Pause” the author stands before the inn door and fancies that a number
of spies (Ausspäher) stand there waiting for him; he protests that
Yorick encountered beggars before the inn in Montreuil, a very different
sort of folk.On page 253 he exclaims, “für diesen schreibe ich dieses
Kapitel nicht und ich--beklage ihn!” Here a footnote suggests “Das
übrige des Diebstahls vid.Yorick’s Gefangenen.” Similarly when he calls
his servant his “La Fleur,” he converses with the critics about his
theft from Yorick.The book is opened by a would-be whimsical note, the guessing about the
name of the book.The dependence upon Sterne, suggested by the motto, is
clinched by reference to this quotation in the section “Apologie,” and
by the following chapter, which is entitled “Yorick.” The latter is the
most unequivocal and, withal, the most successful imitation of Yorick’s
manner which the volume offers.The author is sitting on a sofa reading
the Sentimental Journey, and the idea of such a trip is awakened in him.Someone knocks and the door is opened by the postman, as the narrator is
opening his “Lorenzodose,” and the story of the poor monk is touching
his heart now for the twentieth time as strongly as ever.The postman
asks postage on the letter as well as his own trivial fee.The author
counts over money, miscounts it, then in counting forgets all about it,
puts the money away and continues the reading of Yorick.The postman
interrupts him; the author grows impatient and says, “You want four
groschen?” and is inexplicably vexed at the honesty of the man who says
it is only three pfennigs for himself and the four groschen for the
post.Here is a direct following of the Lorenzo episode; caprice rules
his behavior toward an inferior, who is modest in his request.After the
incident, his spite, his head and his heart and his “ich” converse in
true Sterne fashion as to the advisability of his beginning to read
Yorick again.He reasons with himself concerning his conduct toward the
postman, then in an apostrophe to Yorick he condemns himself for failing
in this little test.This conversation occupies so much time that he
cannot run after the postman, but he resolves that nothing, not even the
fly that lights on his nose, shall bring him so far as to forget
wherefore his friend J . . . .sent him a “Lorenzodose.” And at the end
of the section there is a picture of the snuff-box with the lid open,
disclosing the letters of the word “Yorick.” The “Lorenzodose” is
mentioned later, and later still the author calms his indignation by
opening the box; he fortifies himself also by a look at the
treasure.[66]

Following this picture of the snuff-box is an open letter to “My dear
J . . .,” who, at the author’s request, had sent him on June 29th a
“Lorenzodose.” Jacobi’s accompanying words are given.The author
acknowledges the difficulty with which sometimes the self-conquest
demanded by allegiance to the sentimental symbol has been won.Yet, compared with some other imitations of the good Yorick, the volume
contains but a moderate amount of lavish sentiment.The servant Pumper
is a man of feeling, who grieves that the horses trod the dewdrops from
the blades of grass.Cast in the real Yorick mould is the scene in which
Pumper kills a marmot (Hamster); upon his master’s expostulation that
God created the little beast also, Pumper is touched, wipes the blood
off with his cuff and buries the animal with tenderness, indulging in a
pathetic soliloquy; the whole being a variant of Yorick’s ass episode.Marked with a similar vein of sentimentality is the narrator’s conduct
toward the poor wanderer with his heavy burden: the author asserts that
he has never eaten a roll, put on a white shirt, traveled in a
comfortable carriage, or been borne by a strong horse, without bemoaning
those who were less fortunately circumstanced.A similar and truly
Sterne-like triumph of feeling over convention is the traveler’s
insistence that Pumper shall ride with him inside the coach; seemingly a
point derived from Jacobi’s failure to be equally democratic.[67]

Sterne’s emphasis upon the machinery of his story-telling, especially
his distraught pretense at logical sequence in the ordering of his
material is here imitated.For example: near the close of a chapter the
author summons his servant Pumper, but since the chapter bore the title
“Der Brief” and the servant can neither read nor write a letter, he says
the latter has nothing to do in that chapter, but he is to be introduced
in the following one.Yet with Yorick’s inconsequence, the narrator is
led aside and exclaims at the end of this chapter, “But where is
Pumper?” with the answer, “Heaven and my readers know, it was to no
purpose that this chapter was so named (and perhaps this is not the last
one to which the title will be just as appropriate)”, and the next
chapter pursues the whimsical attempt, beginning “As to whether Pumper
will appear in this chapter, about that, dear reader, I am not really
sure myself.”

The whimsical, unconventional interposition of the reader, and the
author’s reasoning with him, a Sterne device, is employed so constantly
in the book as to become a wearying mannerism.Examples have already
been cited, additional ones are numerous: the fifth section is devoted
to such conversation with the reader concerning the work; later the
reader objects to the narrator’s drinking coffee without giving a
chapter about it; the reader is allowed to express his wonder as to what
the chapter is going to be because of the author’s leap; the reader
guesses where the author can be, when he begins to describe conditions
in the moon.The chapter “Der Einwurf” is occupied entirely with the
reader’s protest, and the last two sections are largely the record of
fancied conversations with various readers concerning the nature of the
book; here the author discloses himself.[68] Sterne-like whim is found
in the chapter “Die Nacht,” which consists of a single sentence: “Ich
schenke Ihnen diesen ganzen Zeitraum, denn ich habe ihn ruhig
verschlafen.” Similar Shandean eccentricity is illustrated by the
chapter entitled “Der Monolog,” which consists of four lines of dots,
and the question, “Didn’t you think all this too, my readers?”
Typographical eccentricity is observed also in the arrangement of the
conversation of the ladies A., B., C., D., etc., in the last chapter.Like Sterne, our author makes lists of things; probably inspired by
Yorick’s apostrophe to the “Sensorium” is our traveler’s appeal to the
spring of joy.The description of the fashion of walking observed in the
maid in the moon is reminiscent of a similar passage in Schummel’s
journey.Göchhausen’s own work, untrammeled by outside influence, is
considerable, largely a genial satire on critics and philosophers;
his stay in the moon is a kind of Utopian fancy.The literary journals accepted Göchhausen’s work as a Yorick imitation,
condemned it as such apologetically, but found much in the book worthy
of their praise.[69]

Probably the best known novel which adopts in considerable measure the
style of Tristram Shandy is Wezel’s once famous “Tobias Knaut,” the
“Lebensgeschichte Tobias Knauts des Weisen sonst Stammler genannt,
aus Familiennachrichten gesammelt.”[70] In this work the influence of
Fielding is felt parallel to that of Sterne.The historians of
literature all accord the book a high place among humorous efforts of
the period, crediting the author with wit, narrative ability, knowledge
of human nature and full consciousness of plan and purpose.[71] They
unite also in the opinion that “Tobias Knaut” places Wezel in the ranks
of Sterne imitators, but this can be accepted only guardedly, for in
part the novel must be regarded as a satire on “Empfindsamkeit” and
hence in some measure be classified as an opposing force to Sterne’s
dominion, especially to the distinctively German Sterne.That this
impulse, which later became the guiding principle of “Wilhelmine Arend,”
was already strong in “Tobias Knaut” is hinted at by Gervinus, but
passed over in silence by other writers.Kurz, following Wieland, who
reviewed the novel in his _Merkur_, finds that the influence of Sterne
was baneful.Other contemporary reviews deplored the imitation as
obscuring and stultifying the undeniable and genuinely original talents
of the author.[72]

A brief investigation of Wezel’s novel will easily demonstrate his
indebtedness to Sterne.Yet Wezel in his preface, anticipating the
charge of imitation, asserts that he had not read Shandy when “Tobias”
was begun.Possibly he intends this assertion as a whim, for he quotes
Tristram at some length.[73] This inconsistency is occasion for censure
on the part of the reviewers.Wezel’s story begins, like Shandy, “ab ovo,” and, in resemblance to
Sterne’s masterpiece, the connection between the condition of the child
before its birth and its subsequent life and character is insisted upon.The work is episodical and
digressive, but in a more extensive way than Shandy; the episodes in
Sterne’s novel are yet part and parcel of the story, infused with the
personality of the writer, and linked indissolubly to the little family
of originals whose sayings and doings are immortalized by Sterne.This
is not true of Wezel: his episodes and digressions are much more purely
extraneous in event, and nature of interest.The story of the new-found
son, which fills sixty-four pages, is like a story within a story, for
its connection with the Knaut family is very remote.This very story,
interpolated as it is, is itself again interrupted by a seven-page
digression concerning Tyrus, Alexander, Pipin and Charlemagne, which the
author states is taken from the one hundred and twenty-first chapter of
his “Lateinische Pneumatologie,”--a genuine Sternian pretense, reminding
one of the “Tristrapaedia.” Whimsicality of manner distinctly
reminiscent of Sterne is found in his mock-scientific catalogues or
lists of things, as in Chapter III, “Deduktionen, Dissertationen,
Argumentationen a priori und a posteriori,” and so on; plainly adapted
from Sterne’s idiosyncrasy of form is the advertisement which in large
red letters occupies the middle of a page in the twenty-first chapter of
the second volume, which reads as follows: “Dienst-freundliche Anzeige.Jedermann, der an ernsten Gesprächen keinen Gefallen findet, wird
freundschaftlich ersucht alle folgende Blätter, deren Inhalt einem
Gespräche ähnlich sieht, wohlbedächtig zu überschlagen, d.h.von dieser
Anzeige an gerechnet.Darauf denke ich, soll jedermanniglich vom 22.Absatze fahren können,--Cuique Suum.” The following page is blank: this
is closely akin to Sterne’s vagaries.Like Sterne, he makes promise of
chapter-subject.[74] Similarly dependent on Sterne’s example, is the
Fragment in Chapter VIII, Volume III, which breaks off suddenly under
the plea that the rest could not be found.Like Sterne, our author
satirizes detailed description in the excessive account of the
infinitesimals of personal discomfort after a carouse.[75] He makes also
obscure whimsical allusions, accompanied by typographical eccentricities
(I, p. 153).To be connected with the story of the Abbess of Andouillets
is the humor “Man leuterirte, appelirte--irte,--irte,--irte.”

The author’s perplexities in managing the composition of the book are
sketched in a way undoubtedly derived from Sterne,--for example, the
beginning of Chapter IX in Volume III is a lament over the difficulties
of chronicling what has happened during the preceding learned
disquisition.When Tobias in anger begins to beat his horse, this is
accompanied by the sighs of the author, a really audible one being put
in a footnote, the whole forming a whimsy of narrative style for which
Sterne must be held responsible.Similar to this is the author’s
statement (Chap.II), that Lucian, Swift, Pope, Wieland and
all the rest could not unite the characteristics which had just been
predicated of Selmann.Like Sterne, Wezel converses with the reader
about the way of telling the story, indulging[76] in a mock-serious line
of reasoning with meaningless Sternesque dashes.Further conversation
with the reader is found at the beginning of Chapter III in Volume I,
and in Chapter VIII of the first volume, he cries, “Wake up, ladies and
gentlemen,” and continues at some length a conversation with these
fancied personages about the progress of the book.Wezel in a few cases
adopted the worst feature of Sterne’s work and was guilty of bad taste
in precisely Yorick’s style: Tobias’s adventure with the so-called
soldier’s wife, after he has run away from home, is a case in point, but
the following adventure with the two maidens while Tobias is bathing in
the pool is distinctly suggestive of Fielding.Sterne’s indecent
suggestion is also followed in the hints at the possible occasion of the
Original’s aversion to women.A similar censure could be spoken
regarding the adventure in the tavern,[77] where the author hesitates on
the edge of grossness.Wezel joined other imitators of Yorick in using as a motif the
accidental interest of lost documents, or papers: here the poems of the
“Original,” left behind in the hotel, played their rôle in the tale.The treatment of the wandering boy by the kindly peasant is clearly an
imitation of Yorick’s famous visit in the rural cottage.A parallel to
Walter Shandy’s theory of the dependence of great events on trifles is
found in the story of the volume of Tacitus, which by chance suggested
the sleeping potion for Frau v. L., or that Tobias’s inability to take
off his hat with his right hand was influential on the boy’s future
life.This is a reminder of Tristram’s obliquity in his manner of
setting up his top.As in Shandy, there is a discussion about the
location of the soul.The character of Selmann is a compound of Yorick
and the elder Shandy, with a tinge of satiric exaggeration, meant to
chastise the thirst for “originals” and overwrought sentimentalism.His
generosity and sensitiveness to human pain is like Yorick.As a boy he
would empty his purse into the bosom of a poor man; but his daily life
was one round of Shandean speculation, largely about the relationships
of trivial things: for example, his yearly periods of investigating his
motives in inviting his neighbors Herr v.Wezel’s satire on the craze for originality is exemplified in the
account of the “Original” (Chap.II), who was cold when
others were hot, complained of not liking his soup because the plate was
not full, but who threw the contents of his coffee cup at the host
because it was filled to the brim, and trembled at the approach of a
woman.Selmann longs to meet such an original.Selmann also thinks he
has found an original in the inn-keeper who answers everything with
“Nein,” greatly to his own disadvantage, though it turns out later that
this was only a device planned by another character to gain advantage
over Selmann himself.So also, in the third volume, Selmann and Tobias
ride off in pursuit of a sentimental adventure, but the latter proves to
be merely a jest of the Captain at the expense of his sentimental
friend.Satire on sentimentalism is further unmistakable in the two
maidens, Adelheid and Kunigunde, who weep over a dead butterfly, and
write a lament over its demise.In jest, too, it is said that the
Captain made a “sentimental journey through the stables.” The author
converses with Ermindus, who seems to be a kind of Eugenius,
a convenient figure for reference, apostrophe, and appeal.The novelist
makes also, like Sterne, mock-pedantic allusions, once indeed making a
long citation from a learned Chinese book.An expression suggesting
Sterne is the oath taken “bey den Nachthemden aller Musen,”[78] and an
intentional inconsequence of narration, giving occasion to conversation
regarding the author’s control of his work, is the sudden passing over
of the six years which Tobias spent in Selmann’s house.[79]

In connection with Wezel’s occupation with Sterne and Sterne products in
Germany, it is interesting to consider his poem: “Die unvermuthete
Nachbarschaft.Ein Gespräch,” which was the second in a volume of three
poems entitled “Epistel an die deutschen Dichter,” the name of the first
poem, and published in Leipzig in 1775.This slight work is written for
the most part in couplets and covers twenty-three pages.Wezel
represents Doktor Young, the author of the gloomy “Night Thoughts” and
“Der gute Lacher,--Lorenz Sterne” as occupying positions side by side in
his book-case.This proximity gives rise to a conversation between the
two antipodal British authors: Sterne says:

  “Wir brauchen beide vielen Raum,
  Your Reverence viel zum Händeringen,
  Und meine Wenigkeit, zum Pfeifen, Tanzen, Singen.”

and later,

 .“Und will von Herzen gern der Thor der Thoren seyn;
  Jüngst that ich ernst: gleich hielt die
  Narrheit mich beym Rocke.Wo, rief sie, willst du hin,--Du!Du lachtest dich gesund.”

To Sterne’s further enunciation of this joyous theory of life, Young
naturally replies in characteristic terms, emphasizing life’s
evanescence and joy’s certain blight.But Sterne, though acknowledging
the transitoriness of life’s pleasures, denies Young’s deductions.Yorick’s conception of death is quite in contrast to Young’s picture and
one must admit that it has no justification in Sterne’s writings.On the
contrary, Yorick’s life was one long flight from the grim enemy.The
idea of death cherished by Asmus in his “Freund Hein,” the welcome
guest, seems rather the conception which Wezel thrusts on Sterne.Death
comes to Yorick in full dress, a youth, a Mercury:

  “Er thuts, er kommt zu mir, ‘Komm, guter Lorenz, flieh!’
  So ruft er auf mich zu.‘Dein Haus fängt an zu wanken,
  Die Mauern spalten sich; Gewölb und Balken schwanken,
  Was nuzt dir so ein Haus?.’”

so he takes the wreathèd cup, drinks joyfully, and follows death,
embracing him.“Das ist mein Tod, ich sehe keinen Knochen,
  Womit du ihn, gleich einem Zahnarzt, schmückst,
  Geschieht es heute noch, geschieht’s in wenig Wochen,
  Dass du, Gevatter Tod, nur meine Hände drückst?Ganz nach Bequemlichkeit!du bist mir zwar willkommen.”

The latter part of the poem contains a rather extended laudation of the
part played by sympathetic feeling in the conduct of life.That there would be those in Germany as in England, who saw in Sterne’s
works only a mine of vulgar suggestion, a relation sometimes delicate
and clever, sometimes bald and ugly, of the indelicate and sensual, is a
foregone conclusion.Undoubtedly some found in the general approbation
which was accorded Sterne’s books a sanction for forcing upon the public
the products of their own diseased imaginations.This pernicious influence of the English master is exemplified by
Wegener’s “Raritäten, ein hinterlassenes Werk des Küsters von
Rummelsberg.”[80] The first volume is dedicated to “Sebaldus Nothanker,”
and the long document claims for the author unusual distinction, in thus
foregoing the possibility of reward or favor, since he dedicates his
book to a fictitious personage.The idea of the book is to present
“merry observations” for every day in the year.With the end of the
fourth volume the author has reached March 17, and, according to the
_Allgemeine deutsche Bibliothek_, the sixth volume includes May 22.The
present writer was unable to examine the last volume to discover whether
the year was rounded out in this way.The author claims to write “neither for surly Catos nor for those fond
of vulgar jests and smutty books,” but for those who will laugh.At the
close of his preface he confesses the source of his inspiration: “In
order to inspire myself with something of the spirit of a Sterne, I made
a decoction out of his writings and drank the same eagerly; indeed I
have burned the finest passages to powder, and then partaken of it with
warm English ale, but”--he had the insight and courtesy to add--“it
helped me just a little as it aids a lame man, if he steps in the
footprints of one who can walk nimbly.” The very nature of this author’s
dependence on Sterne excludes here any extended analysis of the
connection.The style is abrupt, full of affected gaiety and raillery,
conversational and journalistic.The stories, observations and
reflections, in prose and verse, represent one and all the ribaldry of
Sterne at its lowest ebb, as illustrated, for example, by the story of
the abbess of Andouillets, but without the charm and grace with which
that tale begins.The author copies Sterne in the tone of his
lucubrations; the material is drawn from other sources.In the first
volume, at any rate, his only direct indebtedness to Sterne is the
introduction of the Shandean theory of noses in the article for January
11.The pages also, sometimes strewn with stars and dashes, present a
somewhat Sternesque appearance.These volumes are reviewed in the _Allgemeine deutsche Bibliothek_[81]
with full appreciation of their pernicious influence, and with open
acknowledgment that their success demonstrates a pervision of taste in
the fatherland.The author of the “Litterarische Reise durch
Deutschland”[82] advises his sister, to whom his letters are directed,
to put her handkerchief before her mouth at the very mention of Wegener,
and fears that the very name has befouled his pen.A similar
condemnation is meted out in Wieland’s _Merkur_.[83]

A similar commentary on contemporary taste is obtained from a somewhat
similar collection of stories, “Der Geist der Romane im letzten Viertel
des 18ten Jahrhunderts,” Breslau and Hirschberg, 1788, in which the
author (S. G.claims to follow the spirit of the period and
gives six stories of revolting sensuality, with a thin whitewash of
teary sentimentalism.The pursuit of references to Yorick and direct appeals to his writings
in the German literary world of the century succeeding the era of his
great popularity would be a monstrous and fruitless task.Such
references in books, letters and periodicals multiply beyond possibility
of systematic study.One might take the works[84] of Friedrich Matthison
as a case in point.He visits the grave of Musäus, even as Tristram
Shandy sought for the resting-place of the two lovers in Lyons (III,
p.312); as he travels in Italy, he remarks that a certain visit would
have afforded Yorick’s “Empfindsamkeit” the finest material for an
Ash-Wednesday sermon (IV, p. 67).Sterne’s expressions are cited:
“Erdwasserball” for the earth (V, p.57), “Wo keine Pflanze, die da
nichts zu suchen hatte, eine bleibende Stäte fand” (V, p.302); two
farmsteads in the Tyrol are designated as “Nach dem Ideal Yoricks” (VI,
pp.He refers to the story of the abbess of Andouillets (VI,
64); he narrates (VIII, pp.203-4) an anecdote of Sterne which has just
been printed in the _Adress-Comptoir-Nachrichten_ (1769, p.Levade in Lausanne, who bore a striking resemblance to
Sterne (V, p.279), and refers to Yorick in other minor regards (VII,
158; VIII, pp.51, 77, and Briefe II, 76).Yet in spite of this evident
infatuation, Matthison’s account of his own travels cannot be classed as
an imitation of Yorick, but is purely objective, descriptive, without
search for humor or pathos, with no introduction of personalities save
friends and celebrities.Heinse alluded to Sterne frequently in his
letters to Gleim (1770-1771),[85] but after August 23, 1771, Sterne
vanished from his fund of allusion, though the correspondence lasts
until 1802, a fact of significance in dating the German enthusiasm for
Sterne and the German knowledge of Shandy from the publication of the
Sentimental Journey, and likewise an indication of the insecurity of
Yorick’s personal hold.Miscellaneous allusions to Sterne, illustrating the magnitude and
duration of his popularity, may not be without interest: Kästner
“Vermischte Schriften,” II, p.134 (Steckenpferd); Lenz “Gesammelte
Werke,” Berlin, 1828, Vol.312; letter from the Duchess Amalie,
August 2, 1779, in “Briefe an und von Merck,” Darmstadt, 1838; letter of
Caroline Herder to Knebel, April 2, 1799, in “K. L.von Knebel’s
Literarischer Nachlass,” Leipzig, 1835, p.324 (Yorick’s “heiliges
Sensorium”); a rather unfavorable but apologetic criticism of Shandy in
the “Hinterlassene Schriften” of Charlotta Sophia Sidonia Seidelinn,
Nürnberg, 1793, p.227; “Schiller’s Briefe,” edited by Fritz Jonas, I,
pp.136, 239; in Hamann’s letters, “Leben und Schriften,” edited by Dr.C. H. Gildermeister, Gotha, 1875, II, p.16,
163; in C. L. Jünger’s “Anlage zu einem Familiengespräch über die
Physiognomik” in _Deutsches Museum_, II, pp.781-809, where the French
barber who proposes to dip Yorick’s wig in the sea is taken as a type of
exaggeration.And a similar reference is found in Wieland’s _Merkur_,
1799, I, p.15: Yorick’s Sensorium is again cited, _Merkur_, 1791, II,
p. 95.Other references in the _Merkur_ are: 1774, III, p.52; 1791, I,
p.19-21; _Deutsches Museum_, IV, pp.66, 462; _Neuer Gelehrter Mercurius_, Altona, 1773, August 19, in review
of Goethe’s “Götz;” _Almanach der deutschen Musen_, 1771, p. 93.And
thus the references scatter themselves down the decades.“Das Wörtlein
Und,” by F. A. Krummacher (Duisberg und Essen, 1811), bore a motto taken
from the Koran, and contained the story of Uncle Toby and the fly with a
personal application, and Yorick’s division of travelers is copied
bodily and applied to critics.Friedrich Hebbel, probably in 1828, gave
his Newfoundland dog the name of Yorick-Sterne-Monarch.[86] Yorick is
familiarly mentioned in Wilhelm Raabe’s “Chronik der Sperlingsgasse”
(1857), and in Ernst von Wolzogen’s “Der Dornenweg,” two characters
address one another in Yorick similes.Indeed, in the summer of 1902,
a Berlin newspaper was publishing “Eine Empfindsame Reise in einem
Automobile.”[87]

Musäus is named as an imitator of Sterne by Koberstein, and Erich
Schmidt implies in his “Richardson, Rousseau und Goethe,” that he
followed Sterne in his “Grandison der Zweite,” which could hardly be
possible, for “Grandison der Zweite” was first published in 1760, and
was probably written during 1759, that is, before Sterne had published
Tristram Shandy.Adolph von Knigge is also mentioned by Koberstein as a
follower of Sterne, and Baker includes Knigge’s “Reise nach
Braunschweig” and “Briefe auf einer Reise aus Lothringen” in his list.Their connection with Sterne cannot be designated as other than remote;
the former is a merry vagabond story, reminding one much more of the
tavern and way-faring adventures in Fielding and Smollett, and
suggesting Sterne only in the constant conversation with the reader
about the progress of the book and the mechanism of its construction.One example of the hobby-horse idea in this narration may perhaps be
traced to Sterne.The “Briefe auf einer Reise aus Lothringen” has even
less connection; it shares only in the increase of interest in personal
accounts of travel.Knigge’s novels, “Peter Claus” and “Der Roman meines
Lebens,” are decidedly not imitations of Sterne; a clue to the character
of the former may be obtained from the fact that it was translated into
English as “The German Gil Blas.” “Der Roman meines Lebens” is a typical
eighteenth century love-story written in letters, with numerous
characters, various intrigues and unexpected adventures; indeed, a part
of the plot, involving the abduction of one of the characters, reminds
one of “Clarissa Harlowe.” Sterne is, however, incidentally mentioned in
both books, is quoted in “Peter Claus” (Chapter VI, Vol.II), and Walter
Shandy’s theory of Christian names is cited in “Der Roman meines
Lebens.”[88] That Knigge had no sympathy with exaggerated sentimentalism
is seen in a passage in his “Umgang mit Menschen.”[89] Knigge admired
and appreciated the real Sterne and speaks in his “Ueber Schriftsteller
und Schriftstellerei”[90] of Yorick’s sharpening observation regarding
the little but yet important traits of character.Moritz August von Thümmel in his famous “Reise in die mittäglichen
Provinzen von Frankreich” adopted Sterne’s general idea of sentimental
journeying, shorn largely of the capriciousness and whimsicality which
marked Sterne’s pilgrimage.He followed Sterne also in driving the
sensuous to the borderland of the sensual.Hippel’s novels, “Lebensläufe nach aufsteigender Linie” and “Kreuz und
Querzüge des Ritters A. bis Z.” were purely Shandean products in which a
humor unmistakably imitated from Sterne struggles rather unsuccessfully
with pedagogical seriousness.Jean Paul was undoubtedly indebted to
Sterne for a part of his literary equipment, and his works afford proof
both of his occupation with Sterne’s writings and its effect upon his
own.A study of Hippel’s “Lebensläufe” in connection with both Sterne
and Jean Paul was suggested but a few years after Hippel’s death by a
reviewer in the _Neue Bibliothek der schönen Wissenschaften_[91] as a
fruitful topic for investigation.A detailed, minute study of von
Thümmel, Hippel and Jean Paul[92] in connection with the English master
is purposed as a continuation of the present essay.Heine’s pictures of
travel, too, have something of Sterne in them.[Footnote 1: _Quellen und Forschungen_, II, p. 27.][Footnote 2: Jacobi remarked, in his preface to the “Winterreise”
    in the edition of 1807, that this section, “Der Taubenschlag” is
    not to be reckoned as bearing the trace of the then condemned
    “Empfindeley,” for many authors, ancient and modern, have taken up
    the cause of animals against man; yet Sterne is probably the
    source of Jacobi’s expression of his feeling.][Footnote 3: XI, 2, pp.[Footnote 4: For reviews of the “Sommerreise” see _Allg.deutsche
    Bibl._, XIII, i, p.der schönen
    Wissenschaften_, IV, p.354, and _Neue Critische Nachrichten_,
    Greifswald, V, p. 406._Almanach der deutschen Musen_, 1770,
    p. 112.The “Winterreise” is also reviewed there, p. 110.][Footnote 5: Some minor points may be noted.Longo implies
    (page 2) that it was Bode’s translation of the original
    Sentimental Journey which was re-issued in four volumes, Hamburg
    and Bremen, 1769, whereas the edition was practically identical
    with the previous one, and the two added volumes were those of
    Stevenson’s continuation.Longo calls Sterne’s Eliza “Elisha”
    (p.28) and Tristram’s father becomes Sir Walter Shandy (p.37),
    an unwarranted exaltation of the retired merchant.][Footnote 6: Review in the _Jenaische Zeitungen von Gel.Sachen_]

    [Footnote 7: I, pp.314 + 20; II, 337; III.[Footnote 9: Schummel states this himself, III, p. 320.][Footnote 10: Tristram Shandy, III, 51-54.][Footnote 13: Shandy, I, p.75; Schummel, I, p. 265.][Footnote 15: In “Das Kapitel von meiner Lebensart,” II, pp.[Footnote 16: XVI, 2, pp.[Footnote 17: The third part is reviewed (Hr) in XIX, 2, pp.576-7, but without significant contribution to the question.][Footnote 18: I, 2, pp.66-74, the second number of 1772.Review
    is signed “S.”]

    [Footnote 19: Another review of Schummel’s book is found in the
    _Almanach der deutschen Musen_, 1773, p. 106.][Footnote 20: XI, 2, p.249; XVII, 1, p. 244.Also
    entitled “Begebenheiten des Herrn Redlich,” the novel was
    published Wittenberg, 1756-71; Frankfurt and Leipzig, 1768-71.][Footnote 21: XXVIII, 1, pp.Reviewed also in _Auserlesene
    Bibliothek der neusten deutschen Litteratur_, Lemgo, VII, p.234
    (1775) and _Neue litterarische Unterhaltungen_, Breslau, I, pp.[Footnote 22: Leipzig, Crusius, 1776, pp.Baker, influenced
    by title and authorship, includes it among the literary progeny of
    Yorick.[Footnote 23: See _Jahresberichte für neuere deutsche
    Litteratur-geschichte_, II, p.[Footnote 24: Breslau, 1792.It is included in Baker’s list.][Footnote 25: Frankfurt and Leipzig, pp.Baker regards these
    two editions as two different works.][Footnote 26: Sentimental Journey, pp.[Footnote 27: Sentimental Journey, p.[Footnote 30: Die Gesellschafterin, pp.[Footnote 34: Anhang to XIII-XXIV, Vol.[Footnote 35: Letter to Raspe, Göttingen, June 2, 1770, in
    _Weimarisches Jahrbuch_, III, p. 28.][Footnote 36: _Frankfurter Gel.Anz._, April 27, 1773, pp.[Footnote 37: _Hamburgischer unpartheyischer Correspondent_,
    December 31, 1771.][Footnote 38: Other reviews are (2) and (3), _Frankfurter gel.Anz._, November 27, 1772; (2) and (3), _Allg.deutsche Bibl._,
    XIX, 2, p.579 (Musäus) and XXIV, 1, p.287; of the series, _Neue
    Critische Nachrichten_ (Greifswald), IX, p. 152.There is a rather
    full analysis of (1) in _Frankfurter Gel.276-8,
    April 27.According to Wittenberg in the _Altonaer
    Reichs-Postreuter_ (June 21, 1773), Holfrath Deinet was the author
    of this review.A sentimental episode from these “Journeys” was
    made the subject of a play called “Der Greis” and produced at
    Munich in 1774.deutsche Bibl._, XXXII, 2, p. 466).][Footnote 40: _Deutsches Museum_, VI, p.384, and VII, p. 220.][Footnote 41: Reval und Leipzig, 1788, 2d edition, 1792, and
    published in “Kleine gesammelte Schriften,” Reval und Leipzig,
    1789, Vol.Litt.-Zeitung_,
    1789, II, p. 736.][Footnote 42: Leipzig, 1793, pp.224, 8vo, by Georg Joachim
    Göschen.][Footnote 43: See the account of Ulm, and of Lindau near the end
    of the volume.][Footnote 45: “Geschichte der komischen Literatur,” III, p. 625.][Footnote 46: See “Briefwechsel zwischen Goethe und Schiller,”
    edited by Boxberger.Stuttgart, Spemann, Vol.[Footnote 47: It is to be noted also that von Thümmel’s first
    servant bears the name Johann.][Footnote 48: “Charis oder über das Schöne und die Schönheit in
    den bildenden Künsten” by Ramdohr, Leipzig, 1793.][Footnote 49: “Schiller’s Briefe,” edited by Fritz Jonas, III,
    pp.Letters of June 6 and June 23 (?[Footnote 50: “Briefe von Christian Garve an Chr.Felix Weisse,
    und einige andern Freunde,” Breslau, 1803, p. 189-190.The book
    was reviewed favorably by the _Allg.Zeitung_, 1794, IV,
    p. 513.][Footnote 51: Falkenburg, 1796, pp.Goedeke gives Bremen as
    place of publication.][Footnote 52: Ebeling, III, p.625, gives Hademann as author, and
    Fallenburg--both probably misprints.][Footnote 53: The review is of “Auch Vetter Heinrich hat Launen,
    von G. L. B., Frankfurt-am-Main, 1796”--a book evidently called
    into being by a translation of selections from “Les Lunes du
    Cousin Jacques.” Jünger was the translator.The original is the
    work of Beffroy de Regny.][Footnote 54: Hedemann’s book is reviewed indifferently in the
    _Allg.Zeitung._ (Jena, 1798, I, p. 173.)][Footnote 55: Von Rabenau wrote also “Hans Kiekindiewelts Reise”
    (Leipzig, 1794), which Ebeling (III, p.623) condemns as “the most
    commonplace imitation of the most ordinary kind of the comic.”]

    [Footnote 56: It is also reviewed by Musäus in the _Allg.deutsche
    Bibl._, XIX, 2, p. 579.][Footnote 57: The same opinion is expressed in the _Jenaische
    Zeitungen von Gelehrten Sachen_, 1776, p. 465.See also
    Schwinger’s study of “Sebaldus Nothanker,” pp.248-251; Ebeling,
    p.deutsche Bibl._, XXXII, 1, p. 141.][Footnote 58: Leipzig and Liegnitz, 1775.][Footnote 59: The _Leipziger Museum Almanach_, 1776, pp.69-70,
    agrees in this view.][Footnote 60: XXIX, 2, p.[Footnote 61: 1776, I, p.[Footnote 62: An allusion to an episode of the “Sommerreise.”]

    [Footnote 63: “Sophie von la Roche,” Göttinger Dissertation,
    Einbeck, 1895.]deutsche Bibl._, XLVII, 1, p.435; LII, 1,
    p.148, and _Anhang_, XXIV-XXXVI, Vol.II, p. 903-908.][Footnote 65: The quotation is really from the spurious ninth
    volume in Zückert’s translation.][Footnote 66: For these references to the snuff-box, see pp.53,
    132-3, 303 and 314.][Footnote 67: In “Sommerreise.”]

    [Footnote 68: Other examples are found pp.57, 90, 255, 270, 209,
    312, 390, and elsewhere.][Footnote 69: See _Auserlesene Bibliothek der neuesten deutschen
    Litteratur_, VII, p.399; _Almanach der deutschen Musen_, 1775,
    p.75; _Magazin der deutschen Critik_, III, 1, p.174;
    _Frankfurter Gel.Anz._, _July_ 1, 1774; _Allg.deutsche Bibl._,
    XXVI, 2, 487; _Teut.353; _Gothaische Gelehrte
    Zeitungen_, 1774, I, p. 17.][Footnote 70: Leipzig, 1773-76, 4 vols.“Tobias Knaut” was at
    first ascribed to Wieland.][Footnote 71: Gervinus, V, pp.568;
    Hillebrand, II, p.504; Koberstein, IV, pp.[Footnote 72: The “_Magazin der deutschen Critik_” denied the
    imitation altogether.][Footnote 79: For reviews of “Tobias Knaut” see _Gothaische
    Gelehrte Zeitung_, April 13, 1774, pp.193-5; _Magazin der
    deutschen Critik_, III, 1, p.185 (1774); _Frankfurter Gel.Anz._,
    April 5, 1774, pp.228-30; _Almanach der deutschen Musen_, 1775,
    p.75; _Leipziger Musen-Almanach_, 1776, pp.deutsche Bibl._, XXX, 2, pp.524 ff., by Biester; _Teut.Merkur_,
    V, pp.[Footnote 80: Berlin, nine parts, 1775-1785.128
    (1775); Vol.198
    (1779); Vols.V and VI, 1780; Vols.I and II were published in a
    new edition in 1778, and Vol.III in 1780 (a third edition).][Footnote 81: XXIX, 1, p.601; XLIII, 1, p.301;
    XLVI, 2, p.602; LXII, 1, p. 307.][Footnote 83: 1777, II, p.I is reviewed in _Frankfurter Gel.719-20 (October
    31), and IX in _Allg.Litt.-Zeitung_, Jena, 1785, V,
    Supplement-Band, p. 80.][Footnote 85: Briefe deutscher Gelehrten aus Gleims Nachlass.[Footnote 86: Emil Kuh’s life of Hebbel, Wien, 1877, I,
    p. 117-118.][Footnote 87: The “Empfindsame Reise der Prinzessin Ananas nach
    Gros-glogau” (Riez, 1798, pp.68, by Gräfin Lichterau?)in its
    revolting loathesomeness and satirical meanness is an example of
    the vulgarity which could parade under the name.In 1801 we find
    “Prisen aus der hörneren Dose des gesunden Menschenverstandes,”
    a series of letters of advice from father to son.A play of
    Stephanie the younger, “Der Eigensinnige,” produced January 29,
    1774, is said to have connection with Tristram Shandy; if so, it
    would seem to be the sole example of direct adaptation from Sterne
    to the German stage.“Neue Schauspiele.” Pressburg and Leipzig,
    1771-75, Vol. X.][Footnote 90: Hannover, 1792, pp.[Footnote 92: Sometime after the completion of this present essay
    there was published in Berlin, a study of “Sterne, Hippel and Jean
    Paul,” by J. Czerny (1904).I have not yet had an opportunity to
    examine it.]CHAPTER VII

OPPOSITION TO STERNE AND HIS TYPE OF SENTIMENTALISM


Sterne’s influence in Germany lived its own life, and gradually and
imperceptibly died out of letters, as an actuating principle.Yet its
dominion was not achieved without some measure of opposition.The
sweeping condemnation which the soberer critics heaped upon the
incapacities of his imitators has been exemplified in the accounts
already given of Schummel, Bock and others.It would be interesting to
follow a little more closely this current of antagonism.The tone of
protest was largely directed, the edge of satire was chiefly whetted,
against the misunderstanding adaptation of Yorick’s ways of thinking and
writing, and only here and there were voices raised to detract in any
way from the genius of Sterne.He never suffered in Germany such an
eclipse of fame as was his fate in England.He was to the end of the
chapter a recognized prophet, an uplifter and leader.The far-seeing,
clear-minded critics, as Lessing, Goethe and Herder, expressed
themselves quite unequivocally in this regard, and there was later no
withdrawal of former appreciation.Indeed, Goethe’s significant words
already quoted came from the last years of his life, when the new
century had learned to smile almost incredulously at the relation of a
bygone folly.In the very heyday of Sterne’s popularity, 1772, a critic of Wieland’s
“Diogenes” in the _Auserlesene Bibliothek der neuesten deutschen
Litteratur_[1] bewails Wieland’s imitation of Yorick, whom the critic
deems a far inferior writer, “Sterne, whose works will disappear, while
Wieland’s masterpieces are still the pleasure of latest posterity.” This
review of “Diogenes” is, perhaps, rather more an exaggerated compliment
to Wieland than a studied blow at Sterne, and this thought is recognized
by the reviewer in the _Frankfurter Gelehrte Anzeigen_,[2] who
designates the compliment as “dubious” and “insulting,” especially in
view of Wieland’s own personal esteem for Sterne.Yet these words, even
as a relative depreciation of Sterne during the period of his most
universal popularity, are not insignificant.Heinrich Leopold Wagner,
a tutor at Saarbrücken, in 1770, records that one member of a reading
club which he had founded “regarded his taste as insulted because I sent
him “Yorick’s Empfindsame Reise.”[3] But Wagner regarded this instance
as a proof of Saarbrücken ignorance, stupidity and lack of taste; hence
the incident is but a wavering testimony when one seeks to determine the
amount and nature of opposition to Yorick.We find another derogatory fling at Sterne himself and a regret at the
extent of his influence in an anonymous book entitled “Betrachtungen
über die englischen Dichter,”[4] published at the end of the great
Yorick decade.The author compares Sterne most unfavorably with Addison:
“If the humor of the _Spectator_ and _Tatler_ be set off against the
digressive whimsicality of Sterne,” he says, “it is, as if one of the
Graces stood beside a Bacchante.And yet the pampered taste of the
present day takes more pleasure in a Yorick than in an Addison.” But a
reviewer in the _Allgemeine deutsche Bibliothek_[5] discounts this
author’s criticisms of men of established fame, such as Shakespeare,
Swift, Yorick, and suggests youth, or brief acquaintance with English
literature, as occasion for his inadequate judgments.Indeed, Yorick
disciples were quick to resent any shadow cast upon his name.Thus the
remark in a letter printed in the _Deutsches Museum_ that Asmus was the
German Yorick “only a better moral character,” called forth a long
article in the same periodical for September, 1779, by L. H. N.,[6]
vigorously defending Sterne as a man and a writer.The greatness of his
human heart and the breadth and depth of his sympathies are given as the
unanswerable proofs of his moral worth.This defense is vehemently
seconded in the same magazine by Joseph von Retzer.The one great opponent of the whole sentimental tendency, whose censure
of Sterne’s disciples involved also a denunciation of the master
himself, was the Göttingen professor, Georg Christopher Lichtenberg.[7]
In his inner nature Lichtenberg had much in common with Sterne and
Sterne’s imitators in Germany, with the whole ecstatic, eccentric
movement of the time.Julian Schmidt[8] says: “So much is sure, at any
rate, that the greatest adversary of the new literature was of one flesh
and blood with it.”[9] But his period of residence in England shortly
after Sterne’s death and his association then and afterwards with
Englishmen of eminence render his attitude toward Sterne in large
measure an English one, and make an idealization either of the man or of
his work impossible for him.The contradiction between the greatness of heart evinced in Sterne’s
novels and the narrow selfishness of the author himself is repeatedly
noted by Lichtenberg.His knowledge of Sterne’s character was derived
from acquaintance with many of Yorick’s intimate friends in London.In
“Beobachtungen über den Menschen,” he says: “I can’t help smiling when
the good souls who read Sterne with tears of rapture in their eyes fancy
that he is mirroring himself in his book.Sterne’s simplicity, his warm
heart, over-flowing with feeling, his soul, sympathizing with everything
good and noble, and all the other expressions, whatever they may be; and
the sigh ‘Alas, poor Yorick,’ which expresses everything at once--have
become proverbial among us Germans. . . .Yorick was a crawling
parasite, a flatterer of the great, an unendurable burr on the clothing
of those upon whom he had determined to sponge!”[10]

In “Timorus” he calls Sterne “ein scandalum Ecclesiae”;[11] he doubts
the reality of Sterne’s nobler emotions and condemns him as a clever
juggler with words, who by artful manipulation of certain devices
aroused in us sympathy, and he snatches away the mask of loving, hearty
sympathy and discloses the grinning mountebank.With keen insight into
Sterne’s mind and method, he lays down a law by which, he says, it is
always possible to discover whether the author of a touching passage has
really been moved himself, or has merely with astute knowledge of the
human heart drawn our tears by a sly choice of touching features.[12]

Akin to this is the following passage in which the author is
unquestionably thinking of Sterne, although he does not mention him:
“A heart ever full of kindly feeling is the greatest gift which Heaven
can bestow; on the other hand, the itching to keep scribbling about it,
and to fancy oneself great in this scribbling is one of the greatest
punishments which can be inflicted upon one who writes.”[13] He exposes
the heartlessness of Sterne’s pretended sympathy: “A three groschen
piece is ever better than a tear,”[14] and “sympathy is a poor kind of
alms-giving,”[15] are obviously thoughts suggested by Yorick’s
sentimentalism.[16]

The folly of the “Lorenzodosen” is several times mentioned with open or
covert ridicule[17] and the imitators of Sterne are repeatedly told the
fruitlessness of their endeavor and the absurdity of their
accomplishment.[18] His “Vorschlag zu einem Orbis Pictus für deutsche
dramatische Schriftsteller, Romanendichter und Schauspieler”[19] is a
satire on the lack of originality among those who boasted of it, and
sought to win attention through pure eccentricities.The Fragments[20] are concerned, as the editors say, with an evil of the
literature in those days, the period of the Sentimentalists and the
“Kraftgenies.” Among the seven fragments may be noted: “Lorenzo
Eschenheimers empfindsame Reise nach Laputa,” a clever satirical sketch
in the manner of Swift, bitterly castigating that of which the English
people claim to be the discoverers (sentimental journeying) and the
Germans think themselves the improvers.In “Bittschrift der
Wahnsinnigen” and “Parakletor” the unwholesome literary tendencies of
the age are further satirized.His brief essay, “Ueber die
Vornamen,”[21] is confessedly suggested by Sterne and the sketch “Dass
du auf dem Blockberg wärst,”[22] with its mention of the green book
entitled “Echte deutsche Flüche und Verwünschungen für alle Stände,” is
manifestly to be connected in its genesis with Sterne’s famous
collection of oaths.[23] Lichtenberg’s comparison of Sterne and Fielding
is familiar and significant.[24] “Aus Lichtenbergs Nachlass: Aufsätze,
Gedichte, Tagebuchblätter, Briefe,” edited by Albert Leitzmann,[25]
contains additional mention of Sterne.The name of Helfreich Peter Sturz may well be coupled with that of
Lichtenberg, as an opponent of the Sterne cult and its German
distortions, for his information and point of view were likewise drawn
direct from English sources.Sturz accompanied King Christian VII of
Denmark on his journey to France and England, which lasted from May 6,
1768, to January 14, 1769[26]; hence his stay in England falls in a time
but a few months after Sterne’s death (March 18, 1768), when the
ungrateful metropolis was yet redolent of the late lion’s wit and humor.Sturz was an accomplished linguist and a complete master of English,
hence found it easy to associate with Englishmen of distinction whom he
was privileged to meet through the favor of his royal patron.He became
acquainted with Garrick, who was one of Sterne’s intimate friends, and
from him Sturz learned much of Yorick, especially that more wholesome
revulsion of feeling against Sterne’s obscenities and looseness of
speech, which set in on English soil as soon as the potent personality
of the author himself had ceased to compel silence and blind opinion.England began to wonder at its own infatuation, and, gaining
perspective, to view the writings of Sterne in a more rational light.Into the first spread of this reaction Sturz was introduced, and the
estimate of Sterne which he carried away with him was undoubtedly
 by it.In his second letter written to the _Deutsches Museum_
and dated August 24, 1768, but strangely not printed till April,
1777,[27] he quotes Garrick with reference to Sterne, a notable word of
personal censure, coming in the Germany of that decade, when Yorick’s
admirers were most vehement in their claims.Garrick called him “a lewd
companion, who was more loose in his intercourse than in his writings
and generally drove all ladies away by his obscenities.”[28] Sturz adds
that all his acquaintances asserted that Sterne’s moral character went
through a process of disintegration in London.In the _Deutsches Museum_ for July, 1776, Sturz printed a poem entitled
“Die Mode,” in which he treats of the slavery of fashion and in several
stanzas deprecates the influence of Yorick.[29]

  “Und so schwingt sich, zum Genie erklärt,
  Strephon kühn auf Yorick’s Steckenpferd.Trabt mäandrisch über Berg und Auen,
  Reist empfindsam durch sein Dorfgebiet,
  Oder singt die Jugend zu erbauen
  Ganz Gefühl dem Gartengott ein Lied.Gott der Gärten, stöhnt die Bürgerin,
  Lächle gütig, Rasen und Schasmin
  Haucht Gerüche!Fliehet Handlungssorgen,
  Dass mein Liebster heute noch in Ruh
  Sein Mark-Einsaz-Lomber spiele--Morgen,
  Schliessen wir die Unglücksbude zu!”

A passage at the end of the appendix to the twelfth Reisebrief is
further indication of his opposition to and his contempt for the frenzy
of German sentimentalism.The poems of Goeckingk contain allusions[30] to Sterne, to be sure
partly indistinctive and insignificant, which, however, tend in the main
to a ridicule of the Yorick cult and place their author ultimately among
the satirical opponents of sentimentalism.In the “Epistel an Goldhagen
in Petershage,” 1771, he writes:

  “Doch geb ich wohl zu überlegen,
  Was für den Weisen besser sey:
  Die Welt wie Yorick mit zu nehmen?Nach Königen, wie Diogen,
  Sich keinen Fuss breit zu bequemen,”--

a query which suggests the hesitant point of view relative to the
advantage of Yorick’s excess of universal sympathy.In “Will auch ’n
Genie werden” the poet steps out more unmistakably as an adversary of
the movement and as a skeptical observer of the exercise of Yorick-like
sympathy.“Doch, ich Patronus, merkt das wohl,
    Geh, im zerrissnen Kittel,
  Hab’ aber alle Taschen voll
    Yorickischer Capittel.Doch lass’ ich, wenn mir’s Kurzweil schafft,
    Die Hülfe fleh’nden Armen
  Durch meinen Schweitzer, Peter Kraft,
    Zerprügeln ohn’ Erbarmen.”

Goeckingk openly satirizes the sentimental cult in the poem “Der
Empfindsame”

  “Herr Mops, der um das dritte Wort
  Empfindsamkeit im Munde führet,
  Und wenn ein Grashalm ihm verdorrt,
  Gleich einen Thränenstrom verlieret--
     .Mit meinem Weibchen thut er schier
  Gleich so bekannt wie ein Franzose;
  All’ Augenblicke bot er ihr
  Toback aus eines Bettlers Dose
  Mit dem, am Zaun in tiefem Schlaf
  Er einen Tausch wie Yorik traf.Der Unempfindsamkeit zum Hohn
  Hielt er auf eine Mück’ im Glase
  Beweglich einen Leichsermon,
  Purrt’ eine Flieg’ ihm an der Nase,
  Macht’ er das Fenster auf, und sprach:
  Zieh Oheim Toby’s Fliege nach!Durch Mops ist warlich meine Magd
  Nicht mehr bey Trost, nicht mehr bey Sinnen
  So sehr hat ihr sein Lob behagt,
  Dass sie empfindsam allen Spinnen
  Zu meinem Hause, frank und frey
  Verstattet ihre Weberey.Er trat mein Hündchen auf das Bein,
  Hilf Himmel!Welch’ ein Lamentiren!Es hätte mögen einen Stein
  Der Strasse zum Erbarmen rühren,
  Auch wedelt’ ihm in einem Nu
  Das Hündgen schon Vergebung zu.Hündchen, du beschämst mich sehr,
  Denn dass mir Mops von meinem Leben
  Drey Stunden stahl, wie schwer, wie schwer,
  Wird’s halten, das ihm zu vergeben?Denn Spinnen werden oben ein
  Wohl gar noch meine Mörder seyn.”

This poem is a rather successful bit of ridicule cast on the
over-sentimental who sought to follow Yorick’s foot-prints.The other allusions to Sterne[31] are concerned with his hobby-horse
idea, for this seems to gain the poet’s approbation and to have no share
in his censure.The dangers of overwrought sentimentality, of heedless surrender to the
emotions and reveling in their exercise,--perils to whose magnitude
Sterne so largely contributed--were grasped by saner minds, and
energetic protest was entered against such degradation of mind and
futile expenditure of feeling.Joachim Heinrich Campe, the pedagogical theorist, published in 1779[32]
a brochure, “Ueber Empfindsamkeit und Empfindelei in pädagogischer
Hinsicht,” in which he deprecates the tendency of “Empfindsamkeit” to
degenerate into “Empfindelei,” and explains at some length the
deleterious effects of an unbridled “Empfindsamkeit” and an unrestrained
outpouring of sympathetic emotions which finds no actual expression, no
relief in deeds.The substance of this warning essay is repeated, often
word for word, but considerably amplified with new material, and
rendered more convincing by increased breadth of outlook and
positiveness of assertion, the fruit of six years of observation and
reflection, as part of a treatise, entitled, “Von der nöthigen Sorge für
die Erhaltung des Gleichgewichts unter den menschlichen Kräften:
Besondere Warnung vor dem Modefehler die Empfindsamkeit zu überspannen.”
It is in the third volume of the “Allgemeine Revision des gesammten
Schul- und Erziehungswesens.”[33] The differentiation between
“Empfindsamkeit” and “Empfindelei” is again and more accessibly repeated
in Campe’s later work, “Ueber die Reinigung und Bereicherung der
deutschen Sprache.”[34] In the second form of this essay (1785) Campe
speaks of the sentimental fever as an epidemic by no means entirely
cured.His analysis of “Empfindsamkeit” is briefly as follows: “Empfindsamkeit
ist die Empfänglichkeit zu Empfindnissen, in denen etwas Sittliches d.i.Freude oder Schmerz über etwas sittlich Gutes oder sittlich Böses, ist;”
yet in common use the term is applied only to a certain high degree of
such susceptibility.This sensitiveness is either in harmony or discord
with the other powers of the body, especially with the reason: if
equilibrium is maintained, this sensitiveness is a fair, worthy,
beneficent capacity (Fähigkeit); if exalted over other forces, it
becomes to the individual and to society the most destructive and
baneful gift which refinement and culture may bestow.Campe proposes to
limit the use of the word “Empfindsamkeit” to the justly proportioned
manifestation of this susceptibility; the irrational, exaggerated
development he would designate “überspannte Empfindsamkeit.”
“Empfindelei,” he says, “ist Empfindsamkeit, die sich auf eine
kleinliche alberne, vernunftlose und lächerliche Weise, also da äussert,
wo sie nicht hingehörte.” Campe goes yet further in his distinctions and
invents the monstrous word, “Empfindsamlichkeit” for the sentimentality
which is superficial, affected, sham (geheuchelte).Campe’s newly coined
word was never accepted, and in spite of his own efforts and those of
others to honor the word “Empfindsamkeit” and restrict it to the
commendable exercise of human sympathy, the opposite process was
victorious and “Empfindsamkeit,” maligned and scorned, came to mean
almost exclusively, unless distinctly modified, both what Campe
designates as “überspannte Empfindsamkeit” and “Empfindelei,” and also
the absurd hypocrisy of the emotions which he seeks to cover with his
new word.Campe’s farther consideration contains a synopsis of method
for distinguishing “Empfindsamkeit” from “Empfindelei:” in the first
place through the manner of their incitement,--the former is natural,
the latter is fantastic, working without sense of the natural properties
of things.In this connection he instances as examples, Yorick’s feeling
of shame after his heartless and wilful treatment of Father Lorenzo,
and, in contrast with this, the shallowness of Sterne’s imitators who
whimpered over the death of a violet, and stretched out their arms and
threw kisses to the moon and stars.In the second place they are
distinguished in the manner of their expression: “Empfindsamkeit” is
“secret, unpretentious, laconic and serious;” the latter attracts
attention, is theatrical, voluble, whining, vain.Thirdly, they are
known by their fruits, in the one case by deeds, in the other by shallow
pretension.In the latter part of his volume, Campe treats the problem
of preventing the perverted form of sensibility by educative endeavor.The word “Empfindsamkeit” was afterwards used sometimes simply as an
equivalent of “Empfindung,” or sensation, without implication of the
manner of sensing: for example one finds in the _Morgenblatt_[35] a poem
named “Empfindsamkeiten am Rheinfalle vom Felsen der Galerie
abgeschrieben.” In the poem various travelers are made to express their
thoughts in view of the waterfall.A poet cries, “Ye gods, what a hell
of waters;” a tradesman, “away with the rock;” a Briton complains of the
“confounded noise,” and so on.It is plain that the word suffered a
generalization of meaning.A poetical expression of Campe’s main message is found in a book called
“Winterzeitvertreib eines königlichen preussischen Offiziers.”[36]
A poem entitled “Das empfindsame Herz” (p.210) has the following lines:

  “Freund, ein empfindsames Herz ist nicht für diese Welt,
  Von Schelmen wird’s verlacht, von Thoren wirds geprellt,
  Doch üb’ im Stillen das, was seine Stimme spricht.Dein Lohn ist dir gewiss, nur hier auf Erden nicht.”

In a similar vein of protest is the letter of G. Hartmann[37] to Denis,
dated Tübingen, February 10, 1773, in which the writer condemns the
affected sentimentalism of Jacobi and others as damaging to morals.“O best teacher,” he pleads with Denis, “continue to represent these
performances as unworthy.”

Möser in his “Patriotische Phantasien”[38] represents himself as
replying to a maid-in-waiting who writes in distress about her young
mistress, because the latter is suffering from “epidemic”
sentimentalism, and is absurdly unreasonable in her practical incapacity
and her surrender to her feelings.Möser’s sound advice is the
substitution of genuine emotion.The whole section is entitled “Für die
Empfindsamen.”

Knigge, in his “Umgang mit Menschen,” plainly has those Germans in mind
who saw in Uncle Toby’s treatment of the fly an incentive to
unreasonable emphasis upon the relations between man and the animal
world, when, in the chapter on the treatment of animals, he protests
against the silly, childish enthusiasm of those who cannot see a hen
killed, but partake of fowl greedily on the table, or who passionately
open the window for a fly.[39] A work was also translated from the
French of Mistelet, which dealt with the problem of “Empfindsamkeit:”
it was entitled “Ueber die Empfindsamkeit in Rücksicht auf das Drama,
die Romane und die Erziehung.”[40] An article condemning exaggerated
sentimentality was published in the _Deutsches Museum_ for February,
1783, under the title “Etwas über deutsche Empfindsamkeit.”

Goethe’s “Der Triumph der Empfindsamkeit” is a merry satire on the
sentimental movement, but is not to be connected directly with Sterne,
since Goethe is more particularly concerned with the petty imitators of
his own “Werther.” Baumgartner in his Life of Goethe asserts that
Sterne’s Sentimental Journey was one of the books found inside the
ridiculous doll which the love-sick Prince Oronaro took about with him.This is not a necessary interpretation, for Andrason, when he took up
the first book, exclaimed merely “Empfindsamkeiten,” and, as Strehlke
observes,[41] it is not necessary here to think of a single work,
because the term was probably used in a general way, referring possibly
to a number of then popular imitations.The satires on “Empfindsamkeit” began to grow numerous at the end of the
seventies and the beginning of the eighties, so that the _Allgemeine
Litteratur-Zeitung_, in October, 1785, feels justified in remarking that
such attempts are gradually growing as numerous as the “Empfindsame
Romane” themselves, and wishes, “so may they rot together in a
grave of oblivion.”[42] Anton Reiser, the hero of Karl Philipp
Moritz’sautobiographical novel (Berlin, 1785-90), begins a satire on
affected sentimentalism, which was to bring shafts of ridicule to bear
on the popular sham, and to throw appreciative light on the real
manifestation of genuine feeling.[43] A kindred satire was “Die
Geschichte eines Genies,” Leipzig, 1780, two volumes, in which the
prevailing fashion of digression is incidentally satirized.[44]

The most extensive satire on the sentimental movement, and most vehement
protest against its excesses is the four volume novel, “Der
Empfindsame,”[45] published anonymously in Erfurt, 1781-3, but
acknowledged in the introduction to the fourth volume by its author,
Christian Friedrich Timme.He had already published one novel in which
he exemplified in some measure characteristics of the novelists whom he
later sought to condemn and satirize, that is, this first novel,
“Faramond’s Familiengeschichte,”[46] is digressive and episodical.“Der
Empfindsame” is much too bulky to be really effective as a satire; the
reiteration of satirical jibes, the repetition of satirical motifs
slightly varied, or thinly veiled, recoil upon the force of the work
itself and injure the effect.The maintenance of a single satire through
the thirteen to fourteen hundred pages which four such volumes contain
is a Herculean task which we can associate only with a genius like
Cervantes.Then, too, Timme is an excellent narrator, and his original
purpose is constantly obscured by his own interest and the reader’s
interest in Timme’s own story, in his original creations, in the variety
of his characters.These obtrude upon the original aim of the book and
absorb the action of the story in such a measure that Timme often for
whole chapters and sections seems to forget entirely the convention of
his outsetting.His attack is threefold, the centers of his opposition being “Werther,”
“Siegwart” and Sterne, as represented by their followers and imitators.But the campaign is so simple, and the satirist has been to such trouble
to label with care the direction of his own blows, that it is not
difficult to separate the thrusts intended for each of his foes.Timme’s initial purpose is easily illustrated by reference to his first
chapter, where his point of view is compactly put and the soundness of
his critical judgment and the forcefulness of his satirical bent are
unequivocally demonstrated: This chapter, which, as he says, “may serve
instead of preface and introduction,” is really both, for the narrative
really begins only in the second chapter.“Every nation, every age,”
he says, “has its own doll as a plaything for its children, and
sentimentality (Empfindsamkeit) is ours.” Then with lightness and grace,
coupled with unquestionable critical acumen, he traces briefly the
growth of “Empfindsamkeit” in Germany.“Kaum war der liebenswürdige
Sterne auf sein Steckenpferd gestiegen, und hatte es uns vorgeritten;
so versammelten sich wie gewöhnlich in Teutschland alle Jungen an ihn
herum, hingen sich an ihn, oder schnizten sich sein Steckenpferd in der
Geschwindigkeit nach, oder brachen Stecken vom nächsten Zaun oder rissen
aus einem Reissigbündel den ersten besten Prügel, setzten sich darauf
und ritten mit einer solchen Wut hinter ihm drein, dass sie einen
Luftwirbel veranlassten, der alles, was ihm zu nahe kam, wie ein
reissender Strom mit sich fortris, wär es nur unter den Jungen
geblieben, so hätte es noch sein mögen; aber unglücklicherweise fanden
auch Männer Geschmack an dem artigen Spielchen, sprangen vom ihrem Weg
ab und ritten mit Stok und Degen und Amtsperüken unter den Knaben
einher.Freilich erreichte keiner seinen Meister, den sie sehr bald aus
dem Gesicht verloren, und nun die possirlichsten Sprünge von der Welt
machen und doch bildet sich jeder der Affen ein, er reite so schön wie
der Yorick.”[47]

This lively description of Sterne’s part in this uprising is, perhaps,
the best brief characterization of the phenomenon and is all the more
significant as coming from the pen of a contemporary, and written only
about a decade after the inception of the sentimental movement as
influenced and furthered by the translation of the Sentimental Journey.It represents a remarkable critical insight into contemporaneous
literary movements, the rarest of all critical gifts, but it has been
overlooked by investigators who have sought and borrowed brief words to
characterize the epoch.[48]

The contribution of “Werther” and “Siegwart” to the sentimental frenzy
are even as succinctly and graphically designated; the latter book,
published in 1776, is held responsible for a recrudescence of the
phenomenon, because it gave a new direction, a new tone to the faltering
outbursts of Sterne’s followers and indicated a more comprehensible and
hence more efficient, outlet for their sentimentalism.Now again, “every
nook resounded with the whining sentimentality, with sighs, kisses,
forget-me-nots, moonshine, tears and ecstasies;” those hearts excited by
Yorick’s gospel, gropingly endeavoring to find an outlet for their own
emotions which, in their opinion were characteristic of their arouser
and stimulator, found through “Siegwart” a solution of their problem,
a relief for their emotional excess.Timme insists that his attack is only on Yorick’s mistaken followers and
not on Sterne himself.He contrasts the man and his imitators at the
outset sharply by comments on a quotation from the novel, “Fragmente zur
Geschichte der Zärtlichkeit”[49] as typifying the outcry of these petty
imitators against the heartlessness of their misunderstanding
critics,--“Sanfter, dultender Yorick,” he cries, “das war nicht deine
Sprache!Du priesest dich nicht mit einer pharisäischen
Selbstgenügsamkeit und schimpftest nicht auf die, die dir nicht ähnlich
waren, ‘Doch!sprachst Du am Grabe Lorenzos, doch ich bin so weichherzig
wie ein Weib, aber ich bitte die Welt nicht zu lachen, sondern mich zu
bedauern!’ Ruhe deinem Staube, sanfter, liebevoller Dulter!und nur
einen Funken deines Geistes deinen Affen.”[50] He writes not for the
“gentle, tender souls on whom the spirit of Yorick rests,”[51] for those
whose feelings are easily aroused and who make quick emotional return,
who love and do the good, the beautiful, the noble; but for those who
“bei dem wonnigen Wehen und Anhauchen der Gottheithaltenden Natur, in
huldigem Liebessinn und himmelsüssem Frohsein dahin schmelzt.die ihr
vom Sang der Liebe, von Mondschein und Tränen euch nährt,” etc.,
etc.[52] In these few words he discriminates between the man and his
influence, and outlines his intentions to satirize and chastise the
insidious disease which had fastened itself upon the literature of the
time.This passage, with its implied sincerity of appreciation for the
real Yorick, is typical of Timme’s attitude throughout the book, and his
concern lest he should appear at any time to draw the English novelist
into his condemnation leads him to reiterate this statement of purpose
and to insist upon the contrast.Brükmann, a young theological student, for a time an intimate of the
Kurt home, is evidently intended to represent the soberer, well-balanced
thought of the time in opposition to the feverish sentimental frenzy of
the Kurt household.He makes an exception of Yorick in his condemnation
of the literary favorites, the popular novelists of that day, but he
deplores the effects of misunderstood imitation of Yorick’s work, and
argues his case with vehemence against this sentimental group.[53]
Brükmann differentiates too the different kinds of sentimentalism and
their effects in much the same fashion as Campe in his treatise
published two years before.[54] In all this Brükmann may be regarded as
the mouth-piece of the author.The clever daughter of the gentleman who
entertains Pank at his home reads a satirical poem on the then popular
literature, but expressly disclaims any attack on Yorick or “Siegwart,”
and asserts that her bitterness is intended for their imitators.Lotte,
Pank’s sensible and unsentimental, long-suffering fiancée, makes further
comment on the “apes” of Yorick, “Werther,” and “Siegwart.”

The unfolding of the story is at the beginning closely suggestive of
Tristram Shandy and is evidently intended to follow the Sterne novel in
a measure as a model.As has already been suggested, Timme’s own
narrative powers balk the continuity of the satire, but aid the interest
and the movement of the story.The movement later is, in large measure,
simple and direct.The hero is first introduced at his christening, and
the discussion of fitting names in the imposing family council is taken
from Walter Shandy’s hobby.The narrative here, in Sterne fashion, is
interrupted by a Shandean digression[55] concerning the influence of
clergymen’s collars and neck-bands upon the thoughts and minds of their
audiences.Such questions of chance influence of trifles upon the
greater events of life is a constant theme of speculation among the
pragmatics; no petty detail is overlooked in the possibility of its
portentous consequences.Walter Shandy’s hyperbolic philosophy turned
about such a focus, the exaltation of insignificant trifles into
mainsprings of action.In Shandy fashion the story doubles on itself after the introduction and
gives minute details of young Kurt’s family and the circumstances prior
to his birth.The later discussion[56] in the family council concerning
the necessary qualities in the tutor to be hired for the young Kurt is
distinctly a borrowing from Shandy.[57] Timme imitates Sterne’s method
of ridiculing pedantry; the requirements listed by the Diaconus and the
professor are touches of Walter Shandy’s misapplied, warped, and
undigested wisdom.In the nineteenth chapter of the third volume[58] we
find a Sterne passage associating itself with Shandy rather more than
the Sentimental Journey.It is a playful thrust at a score of places in
Shandy in which the author converses with the reader about the progress
of the book, and allows the mechanism of book-printing and the vagaries
of publishers to obtrude themselves upon the relation between writer and
reader.As a reminiscence of similar promises frequent in Shandy, the
author promises in the first chapter of the fourth volume to write a
book with an eccentric title dealing with a list of absurdities.[59]

But by far the greater proportion of the allusions to Sterne associate
themselves with the Sentimental Journey.A former acquaintance of Frau
Kurt, whose favorite reading was Shandy, Wieland’s “Sympatien” and the
Sentimental Journey, serves to satirize the influence of Yorick’s ass
episode; this gentleman wept at the sight of an ox at work, and never
ate meat lest he might incur the guilt of the murder of these sighing
creatures.[60]

The most constantly recurring form of satire is that of contradiction
between the sentimental expression of elevated, universal sympathy and
broader humanity and the failure to seize an immediately presented
opportunity to embody desire in deed.Thus Frau Kurt,[61] buried in
“Siegwart,” refuses persistently to be disturbed by those in immediate
need of a succoring hand.Pankraz and his mother while on a drive
discover an old man weeping inconsolably over the death of his dog.[62]
The scene of the dead ass at Nampont occurs at once to Madame Kurt and
she compares the sentimental content of these two experiences in
deprivation, finding the palm of sympathy due to the melancholy
dog-bewailer before her, thereby exalting the sentimental privilege of
her own experience as a witness.Quoting Yorick, she cries: “Shame on
the world!If men only loved one another as this man loves his dog!”[63]
At this very moment the reality of her sympathy is put to the test by
the approach of a wretched woman bearing a wretched child, begging for
assistance, but Frau Kurt, steeped in the delight of her sympathetic
emotion, repulses her rudely.Pankraz, on going home, takes his Yorick
and reads again the chapter containing the dead-ass episode; he spends
much time in determining which event was the more affecting, and tears
flow at the thought of both animals.In the midst of his vehement curses
on “unempfindsame Menschen,” “a curse upon you, you hard-hearted
monsters, who treat God’s creatures unkindly,” etc., he rebukes the
gentle advances of his pet cat Riepel, rebuffs her for disturbing his
“Wonnegefühl,” in such a heartless and cruel way that, through an
accident in his rapt delight at human sympathy, the ultimate result is
the poor creature’s death by his own fault.In the second volume[64] Timme repeats this method of satire, varying
conditions only, yet forcing the matter forward, ultimately, into the
grotesque comic, but again taking his cue from Yorick’s narrative about
the ass at Nampont, acknowledging specifically his linking of the
adventure of Madame Kurt to the episode in the Sentimental Journey.Frau
Kurt’s ardent sympathy is aroused for a goat drawing a wagon, and driven
by a peasant.She endeavors to interpret the sighs of the beast and
finally insists upon the release of the animal, which she asserts is
calling to her for aid.The poor goat’s parting bleat after its
departing owner is construed as a curse on the latter’s hardheartedness.During the whole scene the
neighboring village is in flames, houses are consumed and poor people
rendered homeless, but Frau Kurt expresses no concern, even regarding
the catastrophe as a merited affliction, because of the villagers’ lack
of sympathy with their domestic animals.The same means of satire is
again employed in the twelfth chapter of the same volume.[65] Pankraz,
overcome with pain because Lotte, his betrothed, fails to unite in his
sentimental enthusiasm and persists in common-sense, tries to bury his
grief in a wild ride through night and storm.His horse tramples
ruthlessly on a poor old man in the road; the latter cries for help, but
Pank, buried in contemplation of Lotte’s lack of sensibility, turns a
deaf ear to the appeal.In the seventeenth chapter of the third volume, a sentimental journey is
proposed, and most of the fourth volume is an account of this
undertaking and the events arising from its complications.Pankraz’s
adventures are largely repetitions of former motifs, and illustrate the
fate indissolubly linked with an imitation of Sterne’s related converse
with the fair sex.[66]

The journey runs, after a few adventures, over into an elaborate
practical joke in which Pankraz himself is burlesqued by his
contemporaries.Timme carries his poignancy and keenness of satire over
into bluntness of burlesque blows in a large part of these closing
scenes.Pankraz loses the sympathy of the reader, involuntarily and
irresistibly conceded him, and becomes an inhuman freak of absurdity,
beyond our interest.[67]

Pankraz is brought into disaster by his slavish following of suggestions
aroused through fancied parallels between his own circumstances and
those related of Yorick.He finds a sorrowing woman[68] sitting, like
Maria of Moulines, beneath a poplar tree.Pankraz insists upon carrying
out this striking analogy farther, which the woman, though she betrays
no knowledge of the Sentimental Journey, is not loath to accede to, as
it coincides with her own nefarious purposes.Timme in the following
scene strikes a blow at the abjectly sensual involved in much of the
then sentimental, unrecognized and unrealized.Pankraz meets a man carrying a cage of monkeys.[69] He buys the poor
creatures from their master, even as Frau Kurt had purchased the goat.The similarity to the Starling narrative in Sterne’s volume fills
Pankraz’s heart with glee.The Starling wanted to get out and so do his
monkeys, and Pankraz’s only questions are: “What did Yorick do?” “What
would he do?” He resolves to do more than is recorded of Yorick, release
the prisoners at all costs.Yorick’s monolog occurs to him and he
parodies it.The animals greet their release in the thankless way
natural to them,--a point already enforced in the conduct of Frau Kurt’s
goat.In the last chapter of the third volume Sterne’s relationship to “Eliza”
is brought into the narrative.Pankraz writes a letter wherein he
declares amid exaggerated expressions of bliss that he has found
“Elisa,” his “Elisa.” This is significant as showing that the name Eliza
needed no further explanation, but, from the popularity of the
Yorick-Eliza letters and the wide-spread admiration of the relation, the
name Eliza was accepted as a type of that peculiar feminine relation
which existed between Sterne and Mrs.Draper, and which appealed to
Sterne’s admirers.Pankraz’s new Order of the Garter, born of his wild frenzy[70] of
devotion over this article of Elisa’s wearing apparel, is an open satire
on Leuchsenring’s and Jacobi’s silly efforts noted elsewhere.The garter
was to bear Elisa’s silhouette and the device “Orden vom Strumpfband der
empfindsamen Liebe.”

The elaborate division of moral preachers[71] into classes may be
further mentioned as an adaptation from Sterne, cast in Yorick’s
mock-scientific manner.A consideration of these instances of allusion and adaptation with a
view to classification, reveals a single line of demarkation obvious and
unaltered.And this line divides the references to Sterne’s sentimental
influence from those to his whimsicality of narration, his vagaries of
thought; that is, it follows inevitably, and represents precisely the
two aspects of Sterne as an individual, and as an innovator in the world
of letters.But that a line of cleavage is further equally discernible
in the treatment of these two aspects is not to be overlooked.On the
one hand is the exaggerated, satirical, burlesque; on the other the
modified, lightened, softened.And these two lines of division coincide
precisely.The slight touches of whimsicality, suggesting Sterne, are a part of
Timme’s own narrative, evidently adapted with approval and appreciation;
they are never carried to excess, satirized or burlesqued, but may be
regarded as purposely adopted, as a result of admiration and presumably
as a suggestion to the possible workings of sprightliness and grace on
the heaviness of narrative prose at that time.Timme, as a clear-sighted
contemporary, certainly confined the danger of Sterne’s literary
influence entirely to the sentimental side, and saw no occasion to
censure an importation of Sterne’s whimsies.Pank’s ode on the death of
Riepel, written partly in dashes and partly in exclamation points, is
not a disproof of this assertion.Timme is not satirizing Sterne’s
whimsical use of typographical signs, but rather the Germans who
misunderstood Sterne and tried to read a very peculiar and precious
meaning into these vagaries.The sentimental is, however, always
burlesqued and ridiculed; hence the satire is directed largely against
the Sentimental Journey, and Shandy is followed mainly in those
sections, which, we are compelled to believe, he wrote for his own
pleasure, and in which he was led on by his own interest.The satire on sentimentalism is purposeful, the imitation and adaptation
of the whimsical and original is half-unconscious, and bespeaks
admiration and commendation.Timme’s book was sufficiently popular to demand a second edition, but it
never received the critical examination its merits deserved.Wieland’s
_Teutscher Merkur_ and the _Bibliothek der schönen Wissenschaften_
ignore it completely.The _Gothaische Gelehrte Zeitungen_ announces the
book in its issue of August 2, 1780, but the book itself is not reviewed
in its columns.The _Jenaische Zeitungen von gelehrten Sachen_ accords
it a colorless and unappreciative review in which Timme is reproached
for lack of order in his work (a censure more applicable to the first
volume), and further for his treatment of German authors then
popular.[72] The latter statement stamps the review as unsympathetic
with Timme’s satirical purpose.In the _Erfurtische gelehrte
Zeitung_,[73] in the very house of its own publication, the novel is
treated in a long review which hesitates between an acknowledged lack of
comprehension and indignant denunciation.The reviewer fears that the
author is a “Pasquillant oder gar ein Indifferentist” and hopes the
public will find no pleasure (Geschmack) in such bitter jesting
(Schnaken).He is incensed at Timme’s contention that the Germans were
then degenerate as compared with their Teutonic forefathers, and Timme’s
attack on the popular writers is emphatically resented.“Aber nun kömmt
das Schlimme erst,” he says, “da führt er aus Schriften unserer grössten
Schenies, aus den Lieblings-büchern der Nazion, aus Werther’s Leiden,
dem Siegwart, den Fragmenten zur Geschichte der Zärtlichkeit, Müller’s
Freuden und Leiden, Klinger’s Schriften u.s.w.zur Bestätigung seiner
Behauptung, solche Stellen mit solcher Bosheit an, dass man in der That
ganz verzweifelt wird, ob sie von einem Schenie oder von einem Affen
geschrieben sind.”

In the number for July 6, 1782, the second and third volumes are
reviewed.Pity is expressed for the poor author, “denn ich fürchte es
wird sich ein solches Geschrey wider ihn erheben, wovon ihm die Ohren
gällen werden.” Timme wrote reviews for this periodical, and the general
tone of this notice renders it not improbable that he roguishly wrote
the review himself or inspired it, as a kind of advertisement for the
novel itself.It is certainly a challenge to the opposing party.The _Allgemeine deutsche Bibliothek_[74] alone seems to grasp the full
significance of the satire.“We acknowledge gladly,” says the reviewer,
“that the author has with accuracy noted and defined the rise,
development, ever-increasing contagion and plague-like prevalence of
this moral pestilence;.that the author has penetrated deep into
the knowledge of this disease and its causes.” He wishes for an
engraving of the Sterne hobby-horse cavalcade described in the first
chapter, and begs for a second and third volume, “aus deutscher
Vaterlandsliebe.” Timme is called “Our German Cervantes.”

The second and third volumes are reviewed[75] with a brief word of
continued approbation.A novel not dissimilar in general purpose, but less successful in
accomplishment, is Wezel’s “Wilhelmine Arend, oder die Gefahren der
Empfindsamkeit,” Dessau and Leipzig, 1782, two volumes.The book is more
earnest in its conception.Its author says in the preface that his
desire was to attack “Empfindsamkeit” on its dangerous and not on its
comic side, hence the book avoids in the main the lighthearted and
telling burlesque, the Hudibrastic satire of Timme’s novel.He works
along lines which lead through increasing trouble to a tragic
_dénouement_.The preface contains a rather elaborate classification of kinds of
“Empfindsamkeit,” which reminds one of Sterne’s mock-scientific
discrimination.This classification is according to temperament,
education, example, custom, reading, strength or weakness of the
imagination; there is a happy, a sad, a gentle, a vehement, a dallying,
a serious, a melancholy, sentimentality, the last being the most poetic,
the most perilous.The leading character, Wilhelmine, is, like most characters which are
chosen and built up to exemplify a preconceived theory, quite
unconvincing.In his foreword Wezel analyzes his heroine’s character and
details at some length the motives underlying the choice of attributes
and the building up of her personality.This insight into the author’s
scaffolding, this explanation of the mechanism of his puppet-show, does
not enhance the aesthetic, or the satirical force of the figure.She is
not conceived in flesh and blood, but is made to order.The story begins in letters,--a method of story-telling which was the
legacy of Richardson’s popularity--and this device is again employed in
the second volume (Part VII).Wilhelmine Arend is one of those whom
sentimentalism seized like a maddening pestiferous disease.We read of
her that she melted into tears when her canary bird lost a feather, that
she turned white and trembled when Dr.Braun hacked worms to pieces in
conducting a biological experiment.On one occasion she refused to drive
home, as this would take the horses out in the noonday sun and disturb
their noonday meal,--an exorbitant sympathy with brute creation which
owes its popularity to Yorick’s ass.It is not necessary here to relate
the whole story.Wilhelmine’s excessive sentimentality estranges her
from her husband, a weak brutish man, who has no comprehension of her
feelings.He finds a refuge in the debasing affections of a French
opera-singer, Pouilly, and gradually sinks to the very lowest level of
degradation.This all is accomplished by the interposition and active
concern of friends, by efforts at reunion managed by benevolent
intriguers and kindly advisers.Braun and Irwin is especially significant in its sane
characterization of Wilhelmine’s mental disorders, and the observations
upon “Empfindsamkeit” which are scattered through the book are
trenchant, and often markedly clever.Wilhelmine holds sentimental
converse with three kindred spirits in succession, Webson, Dittmar, and
Geissing.The first reads touching tales aloud to her and they two unite
their tears, a sentimental idea dating from the Maria of Moulines
episode.The part which the physical body, with its demands and desires
unacknowledged and despised, played as the unseen moving power in these
three friendships is clearly and forcefully brought out.Allusion to
Timme’s elucidation of this principle, which, though concealed, underlay
much of the sentimentalism of this epoch, has already been made.Finally
Wilhelmine is persuaded by her friends to leave her husband, and the
scene is shifted to a little Harz village, where she is married to
Webson; but the unreasonableness of her nature develops inordinately,
and she is unable ever to submit to any reasonable human relations, and
the rest of the tale is occupied with her increasing mental aberration,
her retirement to a hermit-like seclusion, and her death.The book, as has been seen, presents a rather pitiful satire on the
whole sentimental epoch, not treating any special manifestation, but
applicable in large measure equally to those who joined in expressing
the emotional ferment to which Sterne, “Werther” and “Siegwart” gave
impulse, and for which they secured literary recognition.Wezel fails as
a satirist, partly because his leading character is not convincing, but
largely because his satirical exaggeration, and distortion of
characteristics, which by a process of selection renders satire
efficient, fails to make the exponent of sentimentalism ludicrous, but
renders her pitiful.At the same time this satirical warping impairs the
value of the book as a serious presentation of a prevailing malady.A precursor of “Wilhelmine Arend” from Wezel’s own hand was “Die
unglückliche Schwäche,” which was published in the second volume of his
“Satirische Erzählungen.”[76] In this book we have a character with a
heart like the sieve of the Danaids, and to Frau Laclerc is attributed
“an exaggerated softness of heart which was unable to resist a single
impression, and was carried away at any time, wherever the present
impulse bore it.” The plot of the story, with the intrigues of Graf.Z.,
the Pouilly of the piece, the separation of husband and wife, their
reunion, the disasters following directly in the train of weakness of
heart in opposing sentimental attacks, are undoubtedly children of the
same purpose as that which brought forth “Wilhelmine Arend.”

Another satirical protest was, as one reads from a contemporary review,
“Die Tausend und eine Masche, oder Yoricks wahres Shicksall, ein blaues
Mährchen von Herrn Stanhope” (1777, 8vo).The book purports to be the
posthumous work of a young Englishman, who, disgusted with Yorick’s
German imitators, grew finally indignant with Yorick himself.The
_Almanach der deutschen Musen_ (1778, pp.99-100) finds that the author
misjudges Yorick.The book is written in part if not entirely in verse.In 1774 a correspondent of Wieland’s _Merkur_ writes, begging this
authoritative periodical to condemn a weekly paper just started in
Prague, entitled “Wochentlich Etwas,” which is said to be written in the
style of Tristram Shandy and the Sentimental Journey, M . . .and “die Beyträge zur Geheimen Geschichte des menschlichen Herzens und
Verstandes,” and thereby is a shame to “our dear Bohemia.”

In this way it is seen how from various sources and in various ways
protest was made against the real or distorted message of Laurence
Sterne.[Footnote 2: 1772, July 7.][Footnote 3: See Erich Schmidt’s “Heinrich Leopold Wagner,
    Goethe’s Jugendgenosse,” 2d edition, Jena, 1879, p. 82.][Footnote 4: Berlin, 1779, pp.[Footnote 5: XLIV, 1, p.[Footnote 6: Probably Ludwig Heinrich von Nicolay, the poet and
    fable-writer (1727-1820).The references to the _Deutsches Museum_
    are respectively VI, p.[Footnote 7: “Georg Christoph Lichtenberg’s Vermischte Schriften,”
    edited by Ludwig Christian Lichtenberg and Friedrich Kries, new
    edition, Göttingen, 1844-46, 8 vols.][Footnote 8: “Geschichte des geistigen Lebens in Deutschland,”
    Leipzig, 1862, II, p. 585.][Footnote 9: See also Gervinus, “Geschichte der deutschen
    Dichtung,” 5th edition, 1874, V. p. 194.“Ein Original selbst und
    mehr als irgend einer befähigt die humoristischen Romane auf
    deutschen Boden zu verpflanzen.” Gervinus says also (V, p.221)
    that the underlying thought of Musäus in his “Physiognomische
    Reisen” would, if handled by Lichtenberg, have made the most
    fruitful stuff for a humorous novel in Sterne’s style.][Footnote 12: II, 11-12: “Im ersten Fall wird er nie, nach dem die
    Stelle vorüber ist, seinen Sieg plötzlich aufgeben.So wie bei ihm
    sich die Leidenschaft kühlt, kühlt sie sich auch bei uns und er
    bringt uns ab, ohne dass wir es wissen.Hingegen im letztern Fall
    nimmt er sich selten die Mühe, sich seines Sieges zu bedienen,
    sondern wirft den Leser oft mehr zur Bewunderung seiner Kunst, als
    seines Herzens in eine andere Art von Verfassung hinein, die ihn
    selbst nichts kostet als Witz, den Leser fast um alles bringt, was
    er vorher gewonnen hatte.”]

    [Footnote 13: V, 95.][Footnote 16: See also I, p.13, 39, 209; 165, “Die Nachahmer
    Sterne’s sind gleichsam die Pajazzi desselben.”]

    [Footnote 19: In _Göttingisches Magazin_, 1780, Schriften IV, pp.186-227: “Thöricht affectirte Sonderbarkeit in dieser Methode wird
    das Kriterium von Originalität und das sicherste Zeichen, dass man
    einen Kopf habe, dieses wenn man sich des Tages ein Paar Mal
    darauf stellt.Wenn dieses auch eine Sternisch Kunst wäre, so ist
    wohl so viel gewiss, es ist keine der schwersten.”]

    [Footnote 20: II, pp.[Footnote 23: Tristram Shandy, I, pp.[Footnote 26: These dates are of the departure from and return to
    Copenhagen; the actual time of residence in foreign lands would
    fall somewhat short of this period.][Footnote 27: _Deutsches Museum_, 1777, p.449, or Schriften, I,
    pp.12-13; “Bibliothek der deutschen Klassiker,” Vol.[Footnote 28: English writers who have endeavored to make an
    estimate of Sterne’s character have ignored this part of Garrick’s
    opinion, though his statement with reference to the degeneration
    of Sterne’s moral nature is frequently quoted.][Footnote 29: _Deutsches Museum_, II, pp.601-604; Schriften, II,
    pp.[Footnote 30: Gedichte von L. F. G. Goeckingk, 3 Bde., 1780, 1781,
    1782, Leipzig.][Footnote 33: Hamburg, Bohn, 1785.][Footnote 34: Published in improved and amplified form,
    Braunschweig, 1794.]204, August 25, 1808, Tübingen.][Footnote 36: Breslau, 1779, 2d edition, 1780, by A. W. L. von
    Rahmel.][Footnote 37: See M. Denis, “Literarischer Nachlass,” edited by
    Retzer, Wien, 1801, II, p. 196.][Footnote 38: “Sämmtliche Werke,” edited by B. R. Abeken, Berlin,
    1858, III, pp.[Footnote 39: First American edition as “Practical Philosophy,”
    Lansingburgh, 1805, p. 331.Sterne is cited on p. 85.][Footnote 40: Altenburg, 1778, p.Reviewed in _Gothaische
    Gelehrte Zeitungen_, 1779, p.169, March 17, and in _Allg.deutsche Bibl._, XXXVII, 2, p. 476.][Footnote 41: Hempel, VIII, p.[Footnote 42: In a review of “Mamsell Fieckchen und ihr
    Vielgetreuer, ein Erbauungsbüchlein für gefühlvolle Mädchen,”
    which is intended to be a warning to tender-hearted maidens
    against the sentimental mask of young officers.Another protest
    against excess of sentimentalism was “Philotas, ein Versuch zur
    Beruhigung und Belehrung für Leidende und Freunde der Leidenden,”
    Leipzig, 1779.[Footnote 43: See Erich Schmidt’s “Richardson, Rousseau und
    Goethe,” Jena, 1875, p. 297.][Footnote 44: See _Jenaische Zeitungen von Gel.Sachen_, 1780,
    pp.[Footnote 45: The full title is “Der Empfindsame Maurus Pankrazius
    Ziprianus Kurt auch Selmar genannt, ein Moderoman,” published by
    Keyser at Erfurt, 1781-83, with a second edition, 1785-87.][Footnote 46: “Faramonds Familiengeschichte, in Briefen,” Erfurt,
    Keyser, 1779-81.deutsche Bibl._, XLIV, 1, p.120;
    _Jenaische Zeitungen von Gel.273, 332; 1781,
    pp.[Footnote 48: Goethe’s review of Schummel’s “Empfindsame Reise”
    in _Frankfurter Gel.Anz._ represents the high-water mark of
    understanding criticism relative to individual work, but
    represents necessarily no grasp of the whole movement.][Footnote 49: Frankfurt, 1778, _Allg.deutsche Bibl._, XL, 1, 119.This is by Baker incorrectly ascribed J. F. Abel, the author of
    “Beiträge zur Geschichte der Liebe,” 1778.][Footnote 54: This distinction between Empfindsamkeit and
    Empfindelei is further given II, p. 180.][Footnote 57: See discussion concerning Tristram’s tutor, Tristram
    Shandy, II, p. 217.]“Zoologica humana,” and treating of
    Affen, Gekken, Narren, Schelmen, Schurken, Heuchlern, Schlangen,
    Schafen, Schweinen, Ochsen und Eseln.][Footnote 63: A substitution merely of another animal for the
    passage in “Empfindsame Reise,” Bode’s translation, edition of
    1769 (2d ed.[Footnote 66: See the record of Pankraz’s sentimental interview
    with the pastor’s wife.][Footnote 67: For example, see Pankraz’s prayer to Riepel, the
    dead cat, when he learns that another has done more than he in
    raising a lordlier monument to the feline’s virtues: “Wenn du itz
    in der Gesellschaft reiner, verklärter Kazengeister, Himnen
    miaust, O so sieh einen Augenblick auf diese Welt herab!Sieh
    meinen Schmerz, meine Reue!” His sorrow for Riepel is likened to
    the Nampont pilgrim’s grief for his dead ass.]: “Wenn ich so denke, wie es Elisen
    berührt, so wird mir schwindlich . . . .Ich möchte es umschlingen
    wie es Elisen’s Bein umschlungen hat, mögt mich ganz verweben mit
    ihm,” etc.]573: “Dass er einzelne Stellen aus unsern
    angesehensten Schriftstellern heraus rupfet und in eine
    lächerliche Verbindung bringt.”]

    [Footnote 73: 1781, pp.[Footnote 74: LI, I, p.[Footnote 75: LII, 1, p.[Footnote 76: Reviewed in _Almanach der deutscher Musen_, 1779,
    p. 41.The work was published in Leipzig, I, 1777; II, 1778.]A BRIEF BIBLIOGRAPHY OF LAURENCE STERNE


The Case of Elijah and the Widow of Zerephath considered: A charity
sermon preach’d on Good Friday, April 17, 1747.The Abuses of Conscience set forth in a sermon preached in the Cathedral
Church of St.Peter’s, York, July 29, 1750.The Life and Opinions of Tristram Shandy, vols.V, VI, London,
1762.III, IV, London,
1766.V, VI, VII, London, 1769.A Sentimental Journey through France and Italy, 2 vols.A Political Romance addressed to ----, esq., of York, 1769.The first
edition of the Watchcoat story.Twelve Letters to his Friends on Various Occasions, to which is added
his history of a Watchcoat, with explanatory notes.Letters of the Late Reverend Laurence Sterne to his most intimate
Friends with a Fragment in the Manner of Rabelais to which are prefixed
Memoirs of his life and family written by himself, published by his
daughter, Lydia Sterne de Medalle.Seven Letters written by Sterne and his Friends, edited by W. Durrant
Cooper.In Philobiblon Society
Miscellanies.London, Dodsley, etc., 1793.Edited by G. E. B. Saintsbury, 6 vols.These two editions have been chiefly used in the preparation of this
  work.Because of its general accessibility references to Tristram
  Shandy and the Sentimental Journey are made to the latter.Illustrations of Sterne, by Dr.2d
edition: London, 1812.Life of Laurence Sterne, by Percy Fitzgerald.Sterne, in English Men of Letters Series, by H. D. Traill.Laurence Sterne, sa personne et ses ouvrages étude
précédée d’un fragment inédit de Sterne.Sterne and Goldsmith, in English Humorists, 1858,
pp.J. B. Montégut, Essais sur la Littérature anglaise.Walter Bagehot, Sterne and Thackeray, in Literary Studies.Laurence Sterne or the Humorist, in Essays on English
Literature.II,
pp. 1-81.Article on Sterne in the National Dictionary of Biography.A BIBLIOGRAPHY OF STERNE IN GERMANY


  It cannot be assumed that the following list of reprints and
  translations is complete.The conditions of the book trade then
  existing were such that unauthorized editions of popular books
  were very common.I. GERMAN EDITIONS OF STERNE’S WORKS INCLUDING SPURIOUS OR DOUBTFUL
WORKS PUBLISHED UNDER HIS NAME.Tristram Shandy_

The Life and Opinions of Tristram Shandy, Gentleman, 6 vols.The Life and Opinions of Tristram Shandy, Gentleman.The Life and Opinions of Tristram Shandy, 2 vols gr. 8vo.Life and Opinions of Tristram Shandy, 4 vols.The Life and Opinions of Tristram Shandy, 4 vols.The Life and Opinions of Tristram Shandy, Schneeburg, 1833.Pocket
edition of the most eminent English authors of the preceding century,
of which it is vols.The Life and Opinions of Tristram Shandy, 2 vols., gr. 8vo.The Sentimental Journey_

A Sentimental Journey through France and Italy, 2 vols. 8vo.The same with cuts, 2 vols, 8vo.A Sentimental Journey through France and Italy in two books.Göttingen,
1787.A Sentimental Journey with a continuation by Eugenius and an account of
the life and writings of L. Sterne, gr. 8vo.(Legrand,
Ettinger in Gotha.)Sentimental Journey through France and Italy mit Anmerkungen und
Wortregister, 8vo.2d edition to which are now added several other pieces by the same
author.A Sentimental Journey through France and Italy and the continuation by
Eugenius, 2 parts, 8vo.A Sentimental Journey through France and Italy by Mr.(Brockhaus in
Leipzig.)A Sentimental Journey through France and Italy, gr.A Sentimental Journey through France and Italy, 16mo.Pocket
edition of the most eminent English authors of the preceding century, of
which it is Vol. IV.Basil (Thurneisen),
without date.Campe in
Hamburg, without date.Tauchnitz has published editions of both Shandy and the Journey.Letters, Sermons and Miscellaneous_

Yorick’s letters to Eliza, Eliza’s letters to Yorick.Sterne’s letters
to his Friends.Letters to his most intimate Friends, with a fragment in the manner of
Rabelais published by his Daughter, Mme.Letters written between Yorick and Eliza with letters to his Friends.Nürnberg, 8vo, 1788.Letters written between Yorick and Eliza.Letters between Yorick and Eliza, 12mo.Laurence Sterne, to his most intimate
friends, on various occasions, as published by his daughter, Mrs.Medalle, and others, including the letters between Yorick and Eliza.To which are added: An appendix of XXXII Letters never printed before;
A fragment in the manner of Rabelais, and the History of a Watchcoat.Letters written between Yorick and Eliza, mit einem erklärenden
Wortregister zum Selbstunterricht von J. H. Emmert.The Koran, or Essays, Sentiments and Callimachies, etc. 1 vol.Gleanings from the works of Laurence Sterne.GERMAN TRANSLATIONS OF STERNE.Tristram Shandy_

Das Leben und die Meynungen des Herrn Tristram Shandy.Berlin und
Stralsund, 1763.Das Leben und die Meynungen des Herrn Tristram Shandy.Nach einer neuen
Uebersetzung.Berlin und Stralsund, 1769-1772.A revised
edition of the previous translation.Das Leben und die Meinungen des Herrn Tristram Shandy aus dem Englischen
übersetzt, nach einer neuen Uebersetzung auf Anrathen des Hrn.Hofrath
Wielands verfasst.Tristram Schandi’s Leben und Meynungen.Translation by J. J. C. Bode.Zweite verbesserte Auflage.Nachdruck, Hanau und Höchst.Tristram Shandy’s Leben und Meinungen, von neuem verdeutscht.A revision of Bode’s translation by J. L.
Benzler.Leben und Meinungen des Tristram Shandy von Sterne--neu übertragen von
W. H., Magdeburg, 1831.Sammlung der ausgezeichnetsten humoristischen
und komischen Romane des Auslands in neuen zeitgemässen Bearbeitungen.257-264, Ueber Laurence Sterne und dessen Werke.Another revision
of Bode’s work.Tristram Shandy’s Leben und Meinungen, von Lorenz Sterne, aus dem
Englischen von Dr.G. R. Bärmann.Tristram Shandy’s Leben und Meinungen, aus dem Englischen übersetzt von
F. A. Gelbcke.96-99 of “Bibliothek ausländischer Klassiker.”
Leipzig, 1879.Leben und Meinungen des Herrn Tristram Shandy.Deutsch von A. Seubert.The Sentimental Journey_

Yorick’s emfindsame Reise durch Frankreich und Italien.Hamburg und
Bremen, 1768.Translated by J. J. C. Bode.The same, with parts III, IV (Stevenson’s continuation), 1769.Hamburg und Bremen, 1770, 1771, 1772, 1776, 1777, 1804.Leipzig, 1797, 1802.Versuch über die menschliche Natur in Herrn Yoricks, Verfasser des
Tristram Shandy Reisen durch Frankreich und Italien.(Fürstliche Waisenhausbuchhandlung), pp.Translation by Hofprediger
Mittelstedt.Herrn Yoricks, Verfasser des Tristram Shandy, Reisen durch Frankreich
und Italien, als ein Versuch über die menschliche Natur.Braunschweig,
1769.Yoricks empfindsame Reise von neuem verdeutscht.A revision of Bode’s work by Johann Lorenz Benzler.Empfindsame Reise durch Frankreich und Italien übersetzt von Ch.übersetzt, mit Lebensbeschreibung des
Autors und erläuternden Bemerkungen von H. A. Clemen.Yorick’s Empfindsame
Reise durch Frankreich und Italien, mit erläuternden Anmerkungen von
W. Gramberg. 8vo.Since both titles are
given, it is not evident whether this is a reprint, a translation,
or both.Laurence Sterne--Yoricks Empfindsame Reise durch Frankreich und Italien.A revision of Bode’s translation, with a brief
introductory note by E. Suchier.Yorick’s empfindsame Reise durch Frankreich und Italien, übersetzt von
A. Lewald.Yorick’s empfindsame Reise, übersetzt von K. Eitner.Bibliothek
ausländischer Klassiker.Empfindsame Reise durch Frankreich und Italien Deutsch von Friedrich
Hörlek.Letters, Sermons and Miscellaneous_

Briefe von (Yorick) Sterne an seine Freunde Nebst seiner Geschichte
eines Ueberrocks, Aus dem Englischen.Yorick’s Briefe an Elisa.Briefe von Elisa an Yorick.Translation of the above three probably by Bode.Briefwechsel mit Elisen und seinen übrigen Freunden.Elisens ächte Briefe an Yorik.Briefe an seine vertrauten Freunde nebst Fragment im Geschmack des
Rabelais und einer von ihm selbst verfassten Nachricht von seinem Leben
und seiner Familie, herausgegeben von seiner Tochter Madame Medalle.Yorick’s Briefe an Elisa.A new edition of
Bode’s rendering.Briefe von Lorenz Sterne, dem Verfasser von Yorik’s empfindsame Reisen.Englisch und Deutsch zum erstenmal abgedruckt.Is probably
the same as “Hinterlassene Briefe.Englisch und Deutsch.” Leipzig, 1787.Predigten von Laurenz Sterne oder Yorick.I, 1766; II, 1767.The same, III, under the special title “Reden an Esel.”

Predigten.Neue Sammlung von Predigten: Leipsig, 1770.Mit Einleitung und Anmerkungen.Reden an Esel, von Lorenz Sterne.Lorenz Sterne des Menschenkenners Benutzung einiger Schriftsteller.An abridged edition of his sermons.Buch der Predigten oder 100 Predigten und Reden aus den verschiedenen
Zeiten by R. Nesselmann.Contains Sterne’s sermon on St.Yorick’s Nachgelassene Werke.Translation of the Koran,
by J. G. Gellius.Der Koran, oder Leben und Meinungen des Tria Juncta in Uno, M. N. A.
Ein hinterlassenes Werk von dem Verfasser des Tristram Shandy.Yorick’s Betrachtungen über verschiedene wichtige und angenehme
Gegenstände.Frankfurt und Leipzig, 1769.Betrachtungen über verschiedene Gegenstände.Nachlese aus Laurence Sterne’s Werken in’s Deutsche übersetzt von Julius
Voss.French translations of Sterne’s works were issued at Bern and
Strassburg, and one of his “Sentimental Journey” at Kopenhagen and an
Italian translation of the same in Dresden (1822), and in Prague (1821).The following list contains (a) books or articles treating
  particularly, or at some length, the relation of German authors
  to Laurence Sterne; (b) books of general usefulness in determining
  literary conditions in the eighteenth century, to which frequent
  reference is made; (c) periodicals which are the sources of reviews
  and criticisms cited in the text.Other works to which only
  incidental reference is made are noted in the text itself.Allgemeine deutsche Bibliothek.Berlin und Stettin, 1765-92.Allgemeine Litteratur Zeitung.Jena, Leipzig, Wien, 1781.Almanach der deutschen Musen.Leipzig, 1770-1781.Altonaer Reichs-Postreuter.Editor 1772-1786 was Albrecht
Wittenberg.Altonischer Gelehrter Mercurius.Altona, 1763-1772.Auserlesene Bibliothek der neuesten deutschen Litteratur.Lemgo,
1772-1778.The Influence of Laurence Sterne upon German
Literature.Bauer, F. Sternescher Humor in Immermanns Münchhausen.Bauer, F. Ueber den Einfluss Laurence Sternes auf Chr.Laurence Sterne und C. M. Wieland.Forschungen zur
neueren Literaturgeschichte, No.Ein Beitrag zur
Erforschung fremder Einflüsse auf Wielands Dichtungen.Berlinische Monatsschrift, 1783-1796, edited by Gedike and Biester.Bibliothek der schönen Wissenschaften und der freyen Künste.Leipzig,
1757-65.I-IV edited by Nicolai and Mendelssohn, V-XII edited by
Chr.J. J. C. Bode’s Literarisches Leben.Nebst dessen Bildniss von Lips.VI of Bode’s translation of
Montaigne, “Michael Montaigne’s Gedanken und Meinungen.” Berlin,
1793-1795.Bremisches Magazin zur Ausbreitung der Wissenschaften, Künste und
Tugend.Bremen und Leipzig, 1757-66.Sternes Coran und Makariens Archiv.39, p. 922 f.Czerny, Johann, Sterne, Hippel und Jean Paul.Deutsche Bibliothek der schönen Wissenschaften.Leipzig, 1776-1788.Edited by Dohm and Boie and
continued to 1791 as Neues deutsches Museum.Ebeling, Friedrich W. Geschichte der komischen Literatur in Deutschland
während der 2.Die englische Sprache und Litteratur in
Deutschland.Erfurtische Gelehrte Zeitung.Frankfurter Gelehrte Anzeigen.Published under several
titles, 1736-1790.Editors, Merck, Bahrdt and others.Gervinus, G. G. Geschichte der deutschen Dichtung.Grundriss zur Geschichte der deutschen Dichtung.Dresden,
1884-1900.Gothaische gelehrte Zeitungen.Gotha, 1774-1804.Published and edited by
Ettinger.Göttingische Anzeigen von Gelehrten Sachen 1753.Michaelis was editor
1753-1770, then Christian Gottlob Heyne.Hamburger Adress-Comptoir Nachrichten, 1767.Hamburgischer unpartheyischer Correspondent.Full title, Staats- und
Gelehrte Zeitung des Hamburgischen unpartheyischen Correspondenten.Editor, 1763-3, Bode; 1767-1770, Albrecht Wittenberg.Goethe plagiaire de Sterne, in Le Monde Maçonnique.Der Roman in Deutschland von 1774 bis 1778.Geschichte der deutschen Literatur im achtzehnten
Jahrhundert.Braunschweig, 1893-94.This is the third
division of his Literaturgeschichte des achtzehnten Jahrhunderts.Die deutsche Nationalliteratur seit dem Anfange des
achtzehnten Jahrhunderts, besonders seit Lessing bis auf die Gegenwart.Historisch-litterarisches Handbuch
berühmter und denkwürdiger Personen, welche in dem 18.Jahrhundert
gelebt haben.Jenaische Zeitungen von gelehrten Sachen.Lexikon deutscher Dichter und Prosaisten.Leipzig, 1806-1811.Geschichte der deutschen Nationalliteratur.Ueber die Beziehungen der englischen Literatur zur deutschen
im 18.Geschichte der deutschen Literatur.Leipziger Musen-Almanach.Editor, 1776-78, Friedrich
Traugott Hase.Laurence Sterne und Johann Georg Jacobi.Magazin der deutschen Critik.Edited by Gottlob
Benedict Schirach.Mager, A. Wielands Nachlass des Diogenes von Sinope und das englische
Vorbild.Das gelehrte Deutschland, oder Lexicon der jetzt
lebenden deutschen Schriftsteller.Lemgo, 1796-1806.Lexicon der von 1750 bis 1800 verstorbenen
teutschen Schriftsteller.Neue Allgemeine deutsche Bibliothek.Berlin und Stettin, 1801-1805.Neue Bibliothek der schönen Wissenschaften und der freyen Künste.Leipzig, 1765-1806.Felix Weisse, then by the
publisher Dyk.Greifswald, 1750-1807.Editor from 1779 was
Georg Peter Möller, professor of history at Greifswald.Neues Bremisches Magazin.Bremen, 1766-1771.Neue Hallische Gelehrte Zeitung.Founded by Klotz in 1766, and edited by
him 1766-71, then by Philipp Ernst Bertram, 1772-77.Neue litterarische Unterhaltungen.Breslau, bey Korn der ä 1774-75.Neue Mannigfaltigkeiten.Eine gemeinnützige Wochenschrift, follows
Mannigfaltigheiten which ran from Sept., 1769 to May, 1773, and in June
1773, the new series began.Neue Zeitungen von Gelehrten Sachen.At the latter date the
title was changed to Neue Litteratur Zeitung.Bilder aus dem geistigen Leben unserer Zeit.272 ff, Studien über den Englischen
Roman.Geschichte der deutschen Litteratur von Leibnitz bis
auf unsere Zeit.Geschichte des geistigen Lebens in Deutschland von
Leibnitz bis auf Lessing’s Tod, 1681-1781.Leipzig, I, 1862; II, 1864.Schröder, Lexicon Hamburgischer Schriftsteller.Hamburg, 1851-83, 8
vols.Essays zur Kritik und zur Goethe-Literatur.“War
Goethe ein Plagiarius Lorenz Sternes?” Minden i. W., 1885.And Neuer deutscher Merkur.Weimar,
1790-1810.Edited by Wieland, Reinhold and Böttiger.Hamburg bey Bock, 1767-70.Edited by J. J. Eschenburg,
I-IV; Albrecht Wittenberg, V; Christoph Dan.(Der) Wandsbecker Bothe.Wandsbeck,
1771-75.INDEX OF PROPER NAMES


  Abbt, 43.Behrens, Johanna Friederike, 87.Benzler, J. L., 61, 62.Blankenburg, 5, 8, 139.Chr., 93, 127, 129-133, 136.Bode, J. J. C., 15, 16, 24, 34, 37, 38, 40-62, 67, 76, 90, 94,
      106, 115.Bondeli, Julie v., 30, 31.Böttiger, C. A., 38, 42-44, 48, 49, 52, 58, 77, 81.Campe, J. H., 43, 164-166.Cervantes, 6, 23, 26, 60, 168, 178.Claudius, 59, 133, 157-158.Draper, Eliza, 64-70, 89, 114, 176.Ebert, 10, 26, 44-46, 59, 62.Eckermann, 98, 101, 104.Ferber, J. C. C., 84.Fielding, 4, 6, 10, 23, 58, 60, 96, 145, 154.Gellert, 32, 37, 120.Gleim, 2, 3, 59, 85-87, 112, 152.Göchhausen, 88, 140-144, 181.Göchhausen, Fräulein v., 59.Goethe, 40, 41, 59, 75, 77, 85, 91, 97-109, 126, 153, 156, 167,
      168, 170, 180.Griffith, Richard, 74-75.Grotthus, Sara v., 40-41.Hamann, 28, 29, 59, 69, 71, 97, 153.Hartknoch, 28, 32, 97.Herder, 5, 7, 8, 28, 29, 32, 59, 97, 99, 156.Herder, Caroline Flachsland, 89, 99, 152.Hermes, 2, 8, 109.Hippel, 6, 59, 101, 155.Hofmann, J. C., 88.Jacobi, 59, 85-90, 112-114, 131, 136, 139, 142, 143.Klausing, A. E., 72.Klopstock, 37, 51, 59.Knigge, 91, 93, 110, 154, 166.Koran, 74-76, 92, 95, 103-108, 153.Lessing, 24-28, 40-46, 59, 62, 77, 97, 109, 156.Lichtenberg, 4, 78, 84, 158-60.Matthison, 60, 89, 152.
  de Medalle, Lydia Sterne, 64, 68, 69.Mendelssohn, 24, 43, 109, 110.Miller, J. M., 168, 170, 173, 180.Mittelstedt, 46-47, 55-57, 115.Müchler, K. F., 79.Musäus, 10, 91, 138, 152, 153, 158.Nicolai, 27, 40, 43, 77, 78, 110;
  Sebaldus Nothanker, 6, 88, 110, 150.Nicolay, Ludwig Heinrich v., 158.Paterson, Sam’l, 79.Percy, Bishop, 2, 10.Rabenau, A. G. F., 138.Rahmel, A. W. L., 166.Richardson, 4, 10, 31, 43, 96, 179.Richter, Jean Paul, 75, 91, 155.Riedel, 29-30, 32, 54, 109, 125.
  la Roche, Sophie, 139.Sattler, J. P., 8.Schink, J. F., 80-82.Schummel, 59, 93, 114-129, 136, 140.Stephanie, d. j., 153.Stevenson, J. H., 44-53, 57, 64, 81, 105.Swift, 69, 146, 157, 160.

  v. Thümmel, 93, 135, 155.Wagner, H. L., 41, 157.Wezel, 110, 138, 144-150, 179-181.Wieland, 10, 14, 31, 32, 42, 59, 61, 73, 90, 93-99, 103, 146,
      156, 181.Wittenberg, 53, 87.
  v. Wolzogen, 153.Young, 7, 10, 149-150.Zückert, 12-18, 22, 31, 32, 37, 58-60, 99.*       *       *       *       *
           *       *       *       *

Errors and Inconsistencies

German text is unchanged unless there was an unambiguous error, or the
text could be checked against other sources.Most quoted material is
contemporary with Sterne; spellings such as “bey” and “Theil” are
standard.Missing letters or punctuation marks are genuinely absent, not merely
invisible.is shown as printed, as is any adjoining
punctuation.The variation between “title page” and “title-page” is unchanged.Punctuation of “ff” is unchanged; at mid-sentence there is usually no
following period.Hyphenization of phrases such as “a twelve-year old”
is consistent.Chapter I

  the unstored mind  [_unchanged_]

Chapter II

  des vaterländischen Geschmack entwickeln
    [_unchanged: error for “den”?_]
  Vol.245-251, 1772  [245-251.]Bode, the successful and honored translator  [sucessful]
  sends it as such to “my uncle, Tobias Shandy.”
    [_open quote missing_]
  Ich bin an seine Sentiments zum Theil schon so gewöhnt  [go]
  Footnote 48:.in Auszug aus den Werken  [Auzug]
  Julie von Bondeli[52]  [Von]
  frequent references to other English celebrities  [refrences]
  “How many have understood it?”  [understod]

Chapter III

  He says of the first parts of the Sentimental Journey,  [Journay]
  the _Hamburgische Adress-Comptoir-Nachrichten_;[19]
    [Nachrichten_;” with superfluous close quote]
  Footnote 19:... prominent Hamburg periodical.][perodical]
  eine Reise heissen, bey der  [be]
  It may well be that, as Böttiger hints,[24]  [Bottiger]
  Footnote 24: See foot note to page lxiii.][_two words_]
  Bode’s translation in the Allgemeine  [Allegemeine]
  has been generally accepted  [generaly]

Chapter IV

  manages to turn it at once with the greatest delicacy  [delicay]
  the Journey which is here mentioned.”[31]  [mentionad]
  Footnote 34:... (LII, pp.370-371)  [_missing )_]
  he is probably building on the incorrect statement  [incorect]
  Footnote 87:... Berlin, 1810  [810].“Die Schöne Obstverkäuferin”  [“Die “Schöne]

Chapter V

  Footnote 3... Anmerk.24  [Anmerk,]
  Animae quales non candidiores terra tulit.”  [_missing close quote_]
  “like Grenough’s tooth-tincture  [_missing open quote_]
  founding an order of “Empfindsamkeit.”  [_missing close quote_]
  Footnote 24... “Der Teufel auf Reisen,”  [Riesen]
  Footnote 27... _Allg.deutsche Bibl._  [Allg deutsche]
  Sein Seelchen auf den Himmel  [gen Himmel]
  In an article in the _Horen_ (1795, V. Stück,)  [V Stück]
  Footnote 84... G. B. Mendelssohn  [G. B Mendelssohn]

Chapter VI

  re-introducing a sentimental relationship.[relationiship]
  nach Erfindung der Buchdrukerkunst  [_unchanged_]
  “Ueber die roten und schwarzen Röcke,”  [_“Röke” without close quote]
  the twelve irregularly printed lines  [twleve]
  conventional thread of introduction  [inroduction]
  an appropriate proof of incapacity  [incaapcity]
  [Footnote 23... Litteratur-geschichte  [_hyphen in original_]
  Footnote 35... p. 28.missing_]
  [Footnote 38... a rather full analysis  [nalysis]
  multifarious and irrelevant topics  [mutifarious]
  Goethe replies (December 30), in approval, and exclaims  [exlaims]
  laughed heartily at some of the whims.”[49]  [_missing close quote_]
  [Footnote 52... Hademann as author  [auther]
  für diesen schreibe ich dieses Kapitel nicht  [fur]
  [Footnote 69... _July_ 1, 1774  [_italics in original_]
  Darauf denke ich, soll jedermanniglich vom 22.Absatze fahren
    [_“vom.Absatze” with extra space after “22.” as if for
    a new sentence_]
  accompanied by typographical eccentricities  [typograhical]
  the relationships of trivial things  [relationiships]
  Herr v.***  [_asterisks unchanged_]

Chapter VII

  expressed themselves quite unequivocally  [themsleves]
  the pleasure of latest posterity.”  [_final.missing_]
  “regarded his taste as insulted because I sent him “Yorick’s
    Empfindsame Reise.”[3]
    [_mismatched quotation marks unchanged_]
  Georg Christopher Lichtenberg.[7]
    [Lichtenberg.” with superfluous close quote]
  Aus Lichtenbergs Nachlass: Aufsätze, Gedichte, Tagebuchblätter
   [_“Gedichte Tagebuchblätter” without comma_]
  Doch lass’ ich, wenn mir’s Kurzweil schafft  [schaft]
  a poem named “Empfindsamkeiten  [Enpfindsamkeiten]
  A poet cries  [croes]
  “Faramond’s Familiengeschichte,”[46]
    [_inconsistent apostrophe unchanged: compare footnote_]
  sondern mich zu bedauern!’  [_inner close quote conjectural_]
  Ruhe deinem Staube  [dienem]
  the neighboring village is in flames  [nieghboring]
  Footnote 67... [_all German spelling in this footnote unchanged_]
  “Die Tausend und eine Masche, oder Yoricks wahres Shicksall,
    ein blaues Mährchen von Herrn Stanhope” [_all spelling unchanged]


[The Bibliography is shown in the Table of Contents as “Chapter VIII”,
but was printed without a chapter header.]Bibliography (England)

  Life of Laurence Sterne, by Percy Fitzgerald  [Lift]
  b. The Sentimental Journey  [Jonrney]

Bibliography (Germany)

  The Koran, etc.Tristram Schandi’s Leben und Meynungen... III, pp.210]
  durch Frankreich und Italien, übersetzt von A. Lewald.But I see so
many difficulties will follow in pleasing of one another in the dividing
of it, and in becoming bound personally to pay the rent of L200 per annum,
that I do believe it will yet scarce come to pass.The season very sickly
every where of strange and fatal fevers.ETEXT EDITOR'S BOOKMARKS:

     A great baboon, but so much like a man in most things
     A play not very good, though commended much
     Begun to smell, and so I caused it to be set forth (corpse)
     Bleeding behind by leeches will cure him
     By chewing of tobacco is become very fat and sallow
     Cannot bring myself to mind my business
     Durst not take notice of her, her husband being there
     Faced white coat, made of one of my wife's pettycoates
     Family being all in mourning, doing him the greatest honour
     Fear I shall not be able to wipe my hands of him again
     Finding my wife not sick, but yet out of order
     Found him not so ill as I thought that he had been ill
     Found my brother John at eight o'clock in bed, which vexed me
     Good God!how these ignorant people did cry her up for it!Greedy to see the will, but did not ask to see it till to-morrow
     His company ever wearys me
     I broke wind and so came to some ease
     I would fain have stolen a pretty dog that followed me
     Instructed by Shakespeare himself
     King, Duke and Duchess, and Madame Palmer, were
     Lady Batten how she was such a man's whore
     Lately too much given to seeing of plays, and expense
     Lewdness and beggary of the Court
     Look askew upon my wife, because my wife do not buckle to them
     None will sell us any thing without our personal security given
     Quakers do still continue, and rather grow than lessen
     Sat before Mrs.In Scotland boiled swedes or turnips are largely used for farm horses,
but coal and labour are now scarce as well as horse corn.CHAPTER VII

CARE OF THE FEET


There is no part of a Shire to which more attention should be paid
than the feet, and it is safe to say that the foot of the present-day
cart-horse is infinitely better than were those of his ancestors of
forty, or even twenty, years ago.The shape as well as the size has
been improved till the donkey-shaped hoof is rarely met with, at least
in show animals of this breed.It is always advisable to keep the feet of foals, yearlings, and
two-year-olds attended to whether they are required for show or not,
and if they have their feet quietly picked up and the edges rasped, the
heels being lowered a little when necessary, the hoof is prevented from
breaking, and a better and more durable hoof well repays the trouble,
moreover the task of fixing the first set of shoes--which used to be
quite a tough job for the smith when the colts were neglected till
they were three years old--is rendered quite easy.Except for travelling on the road, or when required for show, there is
no advantage in keeping shoes on young Shires, therefore they should be
taken off when lying idle, or if worked only on soft ground shoes are
not actually necessary.Where several are lying together, or even two, those with shoes on may
cause ugly wounds on their fellows, whereas a kick with the naked hoof
is not often serious.There is also a possibility that colts turned
away to grass with their shoes on will have the removing neglected, and
thus get corns, so that the shoeless hoof is always better for young
Shires so long as it is sound and normal.If not, of course, it should
be treated accordingly.In a dry summer, when the ground is very hard, it may be advisable
to use tips so that the foot may be preserved, this being especially
necessary in the case of thin and brittle hoofs.For growing and preserving good strong feet in Shire horses clay land
seems to answer best, seeing that those reared on heavy-land farms
almost invariably possess tough horn on which a shoe can be affixed to
last till it wears out.For the purpose of improving weak feet in young Shires turning them out
in cool clay land may be recommended, taking care to assist the growth
by keeping the heels open so that the frog comes into contact with the
ground.Weakness in the feet has been regarded, and rightly so, as a bad fault
in a Shire stallion, therefore good judges have always been particular
to put bottoms first when judging.Horses of all kinds have to travel,
which they cannot do satisfactorily for any length of time if their
feet are ill-formed or diseased, and it should be borne in mind that
a good or a bad foot can be inherited.“No foot, no horse,” is an old
and true belief.During the past few years farmers have certainly paid
more attention to the feet of their young stock because more of them
are shown, the remarks of judges and critics having taught them that
a good top cannot atone for poor bottoms, seeing that Shires are not
like stationary engines, made to do their work standing.They have to
spend a good part of their lives on hard roads or paved streets, where
contracted or tender feet quickly come to grief, therefore those who
want to produce saleable Shires should select parents with the approved
type of pedals, and see that those of the offspring do not go wrong
through neglect or mismanagement.There is no doubt that a set of good feet often places an otherwise
moderate Shire above one which has other good points but lacks this
essential; therefore all breeders of Shires should devote time and
attention to the production of sound and saleable bottoms, remembering
the oft-quoted line, “The top may come, the bottom never.” In diseases
of the feet it is those in front which are the most certain to go
wrong, and it is these which judges and buyers notice more particularly.If fever manifests itself it is generally in the fore feet; while
side-bone, ring-bone, and the like are incidental to the front coronets.Clay land has been spoken of for rearing Shires, but there are various
kinds of soil in England, all of which can be utilized as a breeding
ground for the Old English type of cart-horses.In Warwickshire Shires are bred on free-working red land, in Herts a
chalky soil prevails, yet champions abound there; while very light
sandy farms are capable of producing high-class Shires if the farmer
thereof sets his mind on getting them, and makes up for the poorness or
unsuitability of the soil by judicious feeding and careful management.It may be here stated that an arable farm can be made to produce a
good deal more horse forage than one composed wholly of pasture-land,
therefore more horses can be kept on the former.Heavy crops of clovers, mixtures, lucerne, etc., can be grown and mown
twice in the season, whereas grass can only be cut once.Oats and
oat straw are necessary, or at least desirable, for the rearing of
horses, so are carrots, golden tankard, mangold, etc; consequently an
arable-land farmer may certainly be a Shire horse breeder.This is getting away from the subject of feet, however, and it may be
returned to by saying that stable management counts for a good deal in
the growth and maintenance of a sound and healthy hoof.Good floors kept clean, dry litter, a diet in which roots appear,
moving shoes at regular intervals, fitting them to the feet, and not
rasping the hoof down to fit a too narrow shoe, may be mentioned as
aids in retaining good feet.As stated, the improvement in this particular has been very noticeable
since the writer’s first Shire Horse Show (in 1890), but perfection
has not yet been reached, therefore it remains for the breeders of the
present and the future to strive after it.There was a time when exhibitors of “Agricultural” horses stopped the
cracks and crevices in their horses’ feet with something in the nature
of putty, which is proved by reading a report of the Leeds Royal of
1861, where “the judges discovered the feet of one of the heavy horses
to be stopped with gutta-percha and pitch.”




CHAPTER VIII

HOW TO SHOW A SHIRE


A few remarks on the above subject will not come amiss, at least to
the uninitiated, for it is tolerably certain that, other things being
equal, the candidate for honours which makes the best show when it is
actually before the judges stands the first chance of securing the
honours.It must not be expected that a colt can be fetched out of a grass field
one day and trained well enough to show himself off creditably in the
ring the next; and a rough raw colt makes both itself and its groom
look small.Training properly takes time and patience, and it is best
to begin early with the process, from birth for choice.The lessons
need not, and certainly should not, be either long or severe at the
outset, but just enough to teach the youngster what is required of him.When teaching horses to stand at “attention” they should not be made to
stretch themselves out as if they were wanted to reach from one side
of the ring to the other, neither should they be allowed to stand like
an elephant on a tub.They should be taught to stand squarely on all
fours in a becoming and businesslike way.The best place for the groom
when a horse is wanted to stand still is exactly in front and facing
the animal.The rein is usually gripped about a foot from the head.Mares can often be allowed a little more “head,” but with stallions
it may be better to take hold close to the bit, always remembering to
have the loop end of the rein in the palm, in case he suddenly rears
or plunges.The leader should “go with his horse,” or keep step with
him, but need not “pick up” in such a manner as to make it appear to
bystanders that he is trying to make up for the shortcomings of his
horse.Both horse and man want to practise the performance in the home paddock
a good many times before perfection can be reached, and certainly
a little time thus spent is better than making a bad show when the
critical moment arrives that they are both called out to exhibit
themselves before a crowd of critics.If well trained the horse will respond to the call of the judges with
only a word, and no whip or stick need be used to get it through the
required walks and trots, or back to its place in the rank.There is a class of men who would profit by giving a little time to
training young horse stock, and that is the farmers who breed but do
not show.Of course, “professional show-men” (as they are sometimes
called) prefer to “buy their gems in the rough,” and put on the polish
themselves, and then take the profits for so doing.But why should not
the breeder make his animals show to their very best, and so get a
better price into his own pocket?Finally, I would respectfully suggest that if some of the horse show
societies were to have a horse-showing competition, _i.e._ give prizes
to the men who showed out a horse in the best manner, it would be both
interesting and instructive to horse lovers.CHAPTER IX

ORIGIN AND PROGRESS OF THE SHIRE


It is evident that a breed of comparatively heavy horses existed in
Britain at the time of the Roman Invasion, when Queen Boadicea’s
warriors met Cæsar’s fighting men (who were on foot) in war chariots
drawn by active but powerful horses, remarkable--as Sir Walter Gilbey’s
book on “The Great Horse” says--for “strength, substance, courage and
docility.”

These characteristics have been retained and improved upon all down the
ages since.The chariot with its knives, or blades, to mow down the
enemy was superseded by regiments of cavalry, the animals ridden being
the Old English type of War Horse.In those days it was the lighter or
second-rate animals, what we may call “the culls,” which were left for
agricultural purposes.The English knight, when clad in armour, weighed
something like 4 cwt., therefore a weedy animal would have sunk under
such a burden.This evidently forced the early breeders to avoid long backs by
breeding from strong-loined, deep-ribbed and well coupled animals,
seeing that slackness meant weakness and, therefore, worthlessness for
war purposes.It is easy to understand that a long-backed, light-middled mount with
a weight of 4 cwt.on his back would simply double up when stopped
suddenly by the rider to swing his battle axe at the head of his
antagonist, so we find from pictures and plates that the War Horse of
those far-off days was wide and muscular in his build, very full in his
thighs, while the saddle in use reached almost from the withers to the
hips, thus proving that the back was short.There came a time, however, when speed and mobility were preferred to
mere weight.The knight cast away his armour and selected a lighter and
fleeter mount than the War Horse of the ancient Britons.The change was, perhaps, began at the battle of Bannockburn in 1314.It is recorded that Robert Bruce rode a “palfrey” in that battle, on
which he dodged the charges of the ponderous English knights, and
he took a very heavy toll, not only of English warriors but of their
massive horses; therefore it is not unreasonable to suppose that some
of the latter were used for breeding purposes, and thus helped to build
up the Scottish, or Clydesdale, breed of heavy horses; but what was
England’s loss became Scotland’s gain, in that the Clydesdale breed had
a class devoted to it at the Highland Society’s Show in 1823, whereas
his English relative, “the Shire,” did not receive recognition by the
Royal Agricultural Society of England till 1883, sixty years later.As
a War Horse the British breed known as “The Great Horse” seems to have
been at its best between the Norman Conquest, 1066, and the date of
Bannockburn above-mentioned, owing to the fact that the Norman nobles,
who came over with William the Conqueror, fought on horseback, whereas
the Britons of old used to dismount out of their chariots, and fight on
foot.The Battle of Hastings was waged between Harold’s English Army of
infantry-men and William the Conqueror’s Army of horsemen, ending in a
victory for the latter.The Flemish horses thus became known to English horse breeders, and
they were certainly used to help lay the foundation of the Old English
breed of cart horses.It is clear that horses with substance were used for drawing chariots
at the Roman invasion in the year 55 B.C., but no great development
in horse-breeding took place in England till the Normans proved that
warriors could fight more effectively on horseback than on foot.After
this the noblemen of England appear to have set store by their horses,
consequently the twelfth and thirteenth centuries may be regarded
as the age in which Britain’s breed of heavy horses became firmly
established.In Sir Walter Gilbey’s book is a quotation showing that “Cart Horses
fit for the dray, the plough, or the chariot” were on sale at
Smithfield (London) every Friday, the extract being made from a book
written about 1154, and from the same source we learn that during the
reign of King John, 1199-1216, a hundred stallions “of large stature”
were imported from the low countries--Flanders and Holland.Passing from this large importation to the time of the famous Robert
Bakewell of Dishley (1726-1795), we find that he too went to Flanders
for stock to improve his cart horses, but instead of returning
with stallions he bought mares, which he mated with his stallions,
these being of the old black breed peculiar--in those days--to
Leicestershire.There is no doubt that the interest taken by this great
breed improver in the Old English type of cart horse had an effect far
more important than it did in the case of the Longhorn breed of cattle,
seeing that this has long lost its popularity, whereas that of the
Shire horse has been growing and widening from that day to this.Bakewell was the first English stockbreeder to let his stud animals for
the season, and although his greatest success was achieved with the
Dishley or “New Leicester” sheep, he also carried on the system with
Longhorn bulls and his cart horses, which were described as “Bakewell’s
Blacks.”

That his horses had a reputation is proved by the fact that in 1785
he had the honour of exhibiting a black horse before King George III.James’s Palace, but another horse named “K,” said by Marshall
to have died in that same year, 1785, at the age of nineteen years,
was described by the writer just quoted as a better animal than that
inspected by His Majesty the King.From the description given he
appears to have had a commanding forehand and to have carried his head
so high that his ears stood perpendicularly over his fore feet, as
Bakewell held that the head of a cart horse should.It can hardly be
questioned that he was a believer in weight, seeing that his horses
were “thick and short in body, on very short legs.”

The highest price he is credited with getting for the hire of a
stallion for a season is 150 guineas, while the service fee at home is
said to have been five guineas, which looks a small amount compared
with the 800 guineas obtained for the use of his ram “Two Pounder” for
a season.What is of more importance to Shire horse breeders, however, is the
fact that Robert Bakewell not only improved and popularized the Shire
horse of his day, but he instituted the system of letting out sires
for the season, which has been the means of placing good sires before
farmers, thus enabling them to assist in the improvement which has made
such strides since the formation of the Shire Horse Society in 1878.It is worth while to note that Bakewell’s horses were said to be
“perfectly gentle, willing workers, and of great power.” He held that
bad pullers were made so by bad management.He used two in front of
a Rotherham plough, the quantity ploughed being “four acres a day.”
Surely a splendid advertisement for the Shire as a plough horse.FLEMISH BLOOD

In view of the fact that Flanders has been very much in the public eye
for the past few months owing to its having been converted into a vast
battlefield, it is interesting to remember that we English farmers of
to-day owe at least something of the size, substance and soundness of
our Shire horses to the Flemish horse breeders of bygone days.Bakewell
is known to have obtained marvellous results among his cattle and sheep
by means of in-breeding, therefore we may assume that he would not have
gone to the Continent for an outcross for his horses unless he regarded
such a step beneficial to the breed.It is recorded by George Culley that a certain Earl of Huntingdon had
returned from the Low Countries--where he had been Ambassador--with a
set of black coach horses, mostly stallions.These were used by the
Trentside farmers, and without a doubt so impressed Bakewell as to
induce him to pay a visit to the country whence they came.If we turn from the history of the Shire to that of the Clydesdale it
will be found that the imported Flemish stallions are credited by the
most eminent authorities, with adding size to the North British breed
of draught horses.The Dukes of Hamilton were conspicuous for their interest in horse
breeding.One was said to have imported six black Flemish stallions--to
cross with the native mares--towards the close of the seventeenth
century, while the sixth duke, who died in 1758, imported one, which he
named “Clyde.”

This is notable, because it proves that both the English and Scotch
breeds have obtained size from the very country now devastated by war.It may be here mentioned that one of the greatest lovers and breeders
of heavy horses during the nineteenth century was schooled on the Duke
of Hamilton’s estate, and he was eminently successful in blending the
Shire and Clydesdale breeds to produce prizewinners and sires which
have done much towards building up the modern Clydesdale.Lawrence Drew, of Merryton, who, like Mr.Robert Bakewell,
had the distinction of exhibiting a stallion (named Prince of Wales)
before Royalty.Drew) bought many Shires in the Midland
Counties of England.So keen was his judgment that he would “spot a
winner” from a railway carriage, and has been known to alight at the
next station and make the journey back to the farm where he saw the
likely animal.On at least one occasion the farmer would not sell the best by itself,
so the enthusiast bought the whole team, which he had seen at plough
from the carriage window on the railway.Quite the most celebrated Shire stallion purchased by Mr.Drew in
England was Lincolnshire Lad 1196, who died in his possession in 1878.This horse won several prizes in Derbyshire before going north, and he
also begot Lincolnshire Lad II.1365, the sire of Harold 3703, Champion
of the London Show of 1887, who in turn begot Rokeby Harold (Champion
in London as a yearling, a three-year-old and a four-year-old),
Markeaton Royal Harold, the Champion of 1897, and of Queen of the
Shires, the Champion mare of the same year, 1897, and numerous other
celebrities.Drew in Derbyshire, was Flora,
by Lincolnshire Lad, who became the dam of Pandora, a great winner, and
the dam of Prince of Clay, Handsome Prince, and Pandora’s Prince, all
of which were Clydesdale stallions and stock-getters of the first rank.There is evidence to show that heavy horses from other countries than
Flanders were imported, but this much is perfectly clear, that the
Flemish breed was selected to impart size, therefore, if we give honour
where it is due, these “big and handsome” black stallions that we read
of deserve credit for helping to build up the breed of draught horses
in Britain, which is universally known as the Shire, its distinguishing
feature being that it is the heaviest breed in existence.CHAPTER X

FACTS AND FIGURES


The London Show of 1890 was a remarkable one in more than one sense.The entries totalled 646 against 447 the previous year.This led to the
adoption of measures to prevent exhibitors from making more than two
entries in one class.The year 1889 holds the record, so far, for the
number of export certificates granted by the Shire Horse Society, the
total being 1264 against 346 in 1913, yet Shires were much dearer in
the latter year than in the former.Twenty-five years ago the number of three-year-old stallions shown in
London was 161, while two-year-olds totalled 134, hence the rule of
charging double fees for more than two entries from one exhibitor.Another innovation was the passing of a rule that every animal entered
for show should be passed by a veterinary surgeon, this being the form
of certificate drawn up:--

    “I hereby certify that ________ entered by Mr.________ for
    exhibition at the Shire Horse Society’s London Show, 1891,
    has been examined by me and, in my opinion, is free from the
    following hereditary diseases, viz: Roaring (whistling),
    Ringbone, Unsound Feet, Navicular Disease, Spavin, Cataract,
    Sidebone, Shivering.”

These alterations led to a smaller show in 1891 (which was the first at
which the writer had the honour of leading round a candidate, exhibited
by a gentleman who subsequently bred several London winners, and who
served on the Council of the Shire Horse Society).But to hark back to
the 1890 Show.A. B. Freeman-Mitford’s
(now Lord Redesdale) Hitchin Conqueror, one of whose sons, I’m the
Sort the Second, made £1000 at the show after winning third prize; the
second-prize colt in the same class being sold for £700.The Champion mare was Starlight, then owned by Mr.R. N.
Sutton-Nelthorpe, but sold before the 1891 Show, at the Scawby sale,
for 925 guineas to Mr.Fred Crisp--who held a prominent place in the
Shire Horse world for several years.Starlight rewarded him by winning
Champion prize both in 1891 and 1892, her three successive victories
being a record in championships for females at the London Show.Others
have won highest honours thrice, but, so far, not in successive years.In 1890 the number of members of the Shire Horse Society was 1615, the
amount given in prizes being just over £700.A curious thing about that
1890 meeting, with its great entry, was that it resulted in a loss of
£1300 to the Society, but in those days farmers did not attend in their
thousands as they do now.The sum spent in 1914 was £2230, the number of members being 4200, and
the entries totalling 719, a similar sum being offered, at the time
this is being written, for distribution at the Shire Horse Show of
1915, which will be held when this country has, with the help of her
Allies, waged a great war for seven months, yet before it had been
carried on for seven days show committees in various parts of the
country cancelled their shows, being evidently under the impression
that “all was in the dust.” With horses of all grades at a premium, any
method of directing the attention of farmers and breeders generally
to the scarcity that is certain to exist is justifiable, particularly
that which provides for over two thousand pounds being spent among
members of what is admitted to be the most flourishing breed society in
existence.At the London Show of 1895 two classes for geldings were added to
the prize schedule, making fifteen in all, but even with twenty-two
geldings the total was only 489, so that it was a small show, its most
notable feature being that Mr.A. B. Freeman-Mitford’s Minnehaha won
the Challenge Cup for mares and died later.Up till the Show of 1898 both stallions and mares commenced with the
eldest, so that Class I was for stallions ten years old and upwards,
the yearlings coming last, the mare classes following in like order.But for the 1898 Show a desirable change was made by putting the
yearlings first, and following on with classes in the order of age.At
this show, 1898, Sir Alexander Henderson performed the unique feat of
winning not only the male and female Challenge Cups, but also the other
two, so that he had four cup winners, three of them being sire, dam,
and son, viz.Markeaton Royal Harold, Aurea, and Buscot Harold, this
made the victory particularly noteworthy.The last named also succeeded
in winning champion honours in 1899 and 1900, thus rivalling Starlight.The cup-winning gelding, Bardon Extraordinary, had won similar honours
the previous year for Mr.W. T. Everard, his owner in 1898 being Mr.He possessed both weight and quality, and it is doubtful
if a better gelding has been exhibited since.He was also cup winner
again in 1899, consequently he holds the record for geldings at the
London Show.It should have been mentioned that the system of giving breeders prizes
was introduced at the Show of 1896, the first prizes being reduced
from £25 to £20 in the case of stallions, and from £20 to £15 in those
for mares, to allow the breeder of the first prize animal £10 in each
breeding class, and the breeder of each second-prize stallion or mare
£5, the latter sum being awarded to breeders of first-prize geldings.This was a move in the right direction, and certainly gave the Shire
Horse Society and its London Show a lift up in the eyes of farmers
who had bred Shires but had not exhibited.Since then they have never
lost their claim on any good animal they have bred, that is why they
flock to the Show in February from all parts of England, and follow the
judging with such keen interest; there is money in it.This Show of 1896 was, therefore, one of the most important ever held.It marked the beginning of a more democratic era in the history of the
Great Horse.The sum of £1142 was well spent.By the year 1900 the prize money had reached a total of £1322, the
classes remaining as from 1895 with seven for stallions, six for
mares, and two for geldings.The next year, 1901, another class, for
mares 16 hands 2 inches and over, was added, and also another class
for geldings, resulting in a further rise to £1537 in prize money.The sensation of this Show was the winning of the Championship by new
tenant-farmer exhibitors, Messrs.J. and M. Walwyn, with an unknown
two-year-old colt, Bearwardcote Blaze.This was a bigger surprise than
the success of Rokeby Harold as a yearling in 1893, as he had won
prizes for his breeder, Mr.A. C. Rogers, and for Mr.John Parnell
(at Ashbourne) before getting into Lord Belper’s possession, therefore
great things were expected of him, whereas the colt Bearwardcote Blaze
was a veritable “dark horse.” Captain Heaton, of Worsley, was one of
the judges, and subsequently purchased him for Lord Ellesmere.The winning of the Championship by a yearling colt was much commented
on at the time (1893), but he was altogether an extraordinary colt.The
critics of that day regarded him as the best yearling Shire ever seen.Said one, “We breed Shire horses every day, but a colt like this comes
only once in a lifetime.” Fortunately I saw him both in London and at
the Chester Royal, where he was also Champion, my interest being all
the greater because he was bred in Bucks, close to where I “sung my
first song.”

Of two-year-old champions there have been at least four, viz.Prince
William, in 1885; Buscot Harold, 1898; Bearwardcote Blaze, 1901; and
Champion’s Goalkeeper, 1913.Three-year-olds have also won supreme honours fairly often.Those
within the writer’s recollection being Bury Victor Chief, in 1892,
after being first in his class for the two previous years, and reserve
champion in 1891; Rokeby Harold in 1895, who was Champion in 1893,
and cup winner in 1894; Buscot Harold, in 1899, thus repeating his
two-year-old performance; Halstead Royal Duke in 1909, the Royal
Champion as a two-year-old.The 1909 Show was remarkable for the successes of Lord Rothschild, who
after winning one of the championships for the previous six years, now
took both of the Challenge Cups, the reserve championship, and the Cup
for the best old stallion.The next and last three-year-old to win was, or is, the renowned
Champion’s Goalkeeper, who took the Challenge Cup in 1914 for the
second time.When comparing the ages of the male and female champions of the London
Show, it is seen that while the former often reach the pinnacle of
fame in their youth, the latter rarely do till they have had time to
develop.CHAPTER XI

HIGH PRICES


It is not possible to give particulars of sums paid for many animals
sold privately, as the amount is often kept secret, but a few may be
mentioned.The first purchase to attract great attention was that of
Prince William, by the late Lord Wantage from Mr.John Rowell in 1885
for £1500, or guineas, although Sir Walter Gilbey had before that given
a real good price to Mr.W. R. Rowland for the Bucks-bred Spark.The
next sensational private sale was that of Bury Victor Chief, the Royal
Champion of 1891, to Mr.Joseph Wainwright, the seller again being
Mr.John Rowell and the price 2500 guineas.In that same year, 1891,
Chancellor, one of Premier’s noted sons, made 1100 guineas at Mr.A.
C. Duncombe’s sale at Calwich, when eighteen of Premier’s sons and
daughters were paraded with their sire, and made an average, including
foals, of £273 each.In 1892 a record in letting was set up by the Welshpool Shire Horse
Society, who gave Lord Ellesmere £1000 for the use of Vulcan (the
champion of the 1891 London Show) to serve 100 mares.This society
was said to be composed of “shrewd tenant farmers who expected a good
return for their money.” Since then a thousand pounds for a first-class
sire has been paid many times, and it is in districts where they have
been used that those in search of the best go for their foals.Two
notable instances can be mentioned, viz.Champion’s Goalkeeper and
Lorna Doone, the male and female champions of the London Show of 1914,
which were both bred in the Welshpool district.Other high-priced
stallions to be sold by auction in the nineties were Marmion to Mr.Arkwright in 1892 for 1400 guineas, Waresley
Premier Duke to Mr.Victor Cavendish (now the Duke of Devonshire) for
1100 guineas at Mr.W. H. O. Duncombe’s sale in 1897, and a similar sum
by the same buyer for Lord Llangattock’s Hendre Crown Prince in the
same year.For the next really high-priced stallion we must come to the dispersion
of the late Lord Egerton’s stud in April, 1909, when Messrs.W. and H.
Whitley purchased the five-year-old Tatton Dray King (London Champion
in 1908) for 3700 guineas, to join their celebrated Devonshire stud.At this sale Tatton Herald, a two-year-old colt, made 1200 guineas to
Messrs.Ainscough, who won the championship with him at the Liverpool
Royal in 1910, but at the Royal Show of 1914 he figured, and won, as a
gelding.As a general rule, however, these costly sires have proved well worth
their money.As mentioned previously, the year 1913 will be remembered by the
fact that 4100 guineas was given at Lord Rothschild’s sale for the
two-year-old Shire colt Champion’s Goalkeeper, by Childwick Champion,
who, like Tatton Dray King and others, is likely to prove a good
investment at his cost.Twice since then he has championed the London
Show, and by the time these lines are read he may have accomplished
that great feat for the third time, his age being four years old in
1915.Of mares, Starlight, previously mentioned, was the first to approach a
thousand pounds in an auction sale.At the Shire Horse Show of 1893 the late Mr.Philo Mills exhibited
Moonlight, a mare which he had purchased privately for £1000, but she
only succeeded in getting a commended card, so good was the company in
which she found herself.The first Shire mare to make over a thousand
guineas at a stud sale was Dunsmore Gloaming, by Harold.This was at
the second Dunsmore Sale early in 1894, the price being 1010 guineas,
and the purchaser Mr.W. J. Buckley, Penyfai, Carmarthen, from whom
she was repurchased by the late Sir P. Albert Muntz, and was again
included in the Dunsmore catalogue of January 27, 1898, when she
realized 780 guineas, Sir J. Blundell Maple being the lucky purchaser,
the word being used because she won the challenge cup in London, both
in 1899 and 1900.Foaled in 1890 at Sandringham, by Harold (London
Champion), dam by Staunton Hero (London Champion), she was sold at
King Edward’s first sale in 1892 for 200 guineas.As a three- and
a four-year-old she was second in London, and she also won second
prize as a seven-year-old for Sir P. A. Muntz, finally winning supreme
honours at nine and ten years of age, a very successful finish to a
distinguished career.On February 11th, 1898, another record was set by
His Majesty King Edward VII., whose three-year-old filly Sea Breeze, by
the same sire as Bearwardcote Blaze, made 1150 guineas, Sir J. Blundell
Maple again being the buyer.The next mare to make four figures at a
stud sale was Hendre Crown Princess at the Lockinge sale of February
14, 1900, the successful bidder being Mr.H. H. Smith-Carington,
Ashby Folville, Melton Mowbray, who has bought and bred many good
Shires.This date, February 14, seems to
be a particularly lucky one for Shire sales, for besides the one just
mentioned Lord Rothschild has held at least two sales on February 14.In 1908 the yearling colt King Cole VII.was bought by the late Lord
Winterstoke for 900 guineas, the highest price realized by the stud
sales of that year.Then there is the record sale at Tring Park on
February 14, 1913, when one stallion, Champions Goalkeeper, made 4100
guineas, and another, Blacklands Kingmaker, 1750.The honour for being the highest priced Shire mare sold at a stud sale
belongs to the great show mare, Pailton Sorais, for which Sir Arthur
Nicholson gave 1200 guineas at the dispersion sale of Mr.Max Michaelis
at Tandridge, Surrey, on October 26, 1911.It will be remembered by
Shire breeders that she made a successful appearance in London each
year from one to eight years old, her list being: First, as a yearling;
sixth, as a two-year-old; second, as a three-year-old; first and
reserve champion at four years old, five and seven; first in her class
at six.She was not to be denied the absolute championship, however,
and it fell to her in 1911.No Shire in history has achieved greater
distinction than this, not even Honest Tom 1105, who won first prize
at the Royal Show six years in succession, as the competition in those
far-off days was much less keen than that which Pailton Sorais had to
face, and it should be mentioned that she was also a good breeder,
the foal by her side when she was sold made 310 guineas and another
daughter 400 guineas.Such are the kind of Shire mares that farmers want.Those that will
work, win, and breed.As we have seen in this incomplete review, Aurea
won the championship of the London show, together with her son.Belle
Cole, the champion mare of 1908, bred a colt which realized 900 guineas
as a yearling a few days before she herself gained her victory, a clear
proof that showing and breeding are not incompatible.CHAPTER XII

A FEW RECORDS


The highest priced Shires sold by auction have already been given.So a
few of the most notable sales may be mentioned, together with the dates
they were held--

                                                     £   _s._ _d._
    Tring Park (draft), February 14, 1913:
                               32 Shires averaged   454   0    0
    Tatton Park (dispersion), April 23, 1909:
                               21 Shires averaged   465   0    0
    Tring Park (draft), February 14, 1905:
                               35 Shires averaged   266  15    0
    The Hendre, Monmouth (draft), October 18, 1900:
                               42 Shires averaged   226   0    0
    Sandringham (draft), February 11, 1898:
                               52 Shires averaged   224   7    9
    Tring Park (draft), January 15, 1902:
                               40 Shires averaged   217  14    0
    Tring Park (draft), January 12, 1898:
                               35 Shires averaged   209  18    2
    Dunsmore (dispersion), February 11, 1909:
                               51 Shires averaged   200  12    0
    Childwick (draft), February 13, 1901:
                               46 Shires averaged   200   0    0
    Tandridge (dispersion), October 28, 1911:
                               84 Shires averaged   188  17    6

These ten are worthy of special mention, although there are several
which come close up to the £200 average.That given first is the most
noteworthy for the reason that Lord Rothschild only sold a portion of
his stud, whereas the executors of the late Lord Egerton of Tatton
sold their whole lot of twenty-one head, hence the higher average.Two clear records were, however, set up at the historical Tring Park
sale in 1913, viz.the highest individual price for a stallion and the
highest average price for animals by one sire, seven sons and daughters
of Childwick Champion, making no less than £927 each, including two
yearling colts.The best average of the nineteenth century was that made at its close
by the late Lord Llangattock, who had given a very high price privately
for Prince Harold, by Harold, which, like his sire, was a very
successful stock horse, his progeny making a splendid average at this
celebrated sale.A spirited bidder at all of the important sales and a
very successful exhibitor, Lord Llangattock did not succeed in winning
either of the London Championships.One private sale during 1900 is worth mentioning, which was that of Mr.James Eadie’s two cup-winning geldings, Bardon Extraordinary and Barrow
Farmer for 225 guineas each, a price which has only been equalled once
to the writer’s knowledge.This was in the autumn of 1910, when Messrs.Truman gave 225 guineas for a gelding, at Messrs.Manley’s Repository,
Crewe, this specimen of the English lorry horse being bought for export
to the United States.In 1894 the late Lord Wantage held a sale which possessed unique
features in that fifty animals catalogued were all sired by the dual
London Champion and Windsor Royal (Jubilee Show) Gold Medal Winner,
Prince William, to whom reference has already been made.As a great supporter of the old English breed, Lord
Wantage, K.C.B., a Crimean veteran, deserves to be bracketed with the
recently deceased Sir Walter Gilbey, inasmuch as that in 1890 he gave
the Lockinge Cup for the best Shire mare exhibited at the London show,
which Starlight succeeded in winning outright for Mr.Sir Walter Gilbey gave the Elsenham Cup for the best stallion, value
100 guineas, in 1884, which, however, was not won permanently till the
late Earl of Ellesmere gained his second championship with Vulcan in
1891.Since these dates the Shire Horse Society has continued to give
the Challenge Cups both for the best stallion and mare.The sales hitherto mentioned have been those of landowners, but it must
not be supposed that tenant farmers have been unable to get Shires
enough to call a home sale.A. H. Clark sold
fifty-one Shires at Moulton Eaugate, the average being £127 5_s._, the
striking feature of this sale being the number of grey (Thumper) mares.F. W. Griffin, another very
successful farmer breeder in the Fens, held a joint sale at Postland,
the former’s average being £100 6_s._ 9_d._, and the latter’s £123
9_s._ 8_d._, each selling twenty-five animals.The last home sale held by a farmer was that of Mr.Matthew Hubbard
at Eaton, Grantham, on November 1, 1912, when an average of £73 was
obtained for fifty-seven lots.Reference has already been made to Harold, Premier, and Prince William,
as sires, but there have been others equally famous since the Shire
Horse Society has been in existence.Among them may be mentioned Bar
None, who won at the 1882 London Show for the late Mr.James Forshaw,
stood for service at his celebrated Carlton Stud Farm for a dozen
seasons, and is credited with having sired over a thousand foals.They
were conspicuous for flat bone and silky feather, when round cannon
bones and curly hair were much more common than they are to-day,
therefore both males and females by Bar None were highly prized; £2000
was refused for at least one of his sons, while a two-year-old daughter
made 800 guineas in 1891.For several years the two sires of Mr.A. C.
Duncombe, at Calwich, Harold and Premier, sired many winners, and in
those days the Ashbourne Foal Show was worth a journey to see.In 1899 Sir P. Albert Muntz took first prize in London with a
big-limbed yearling, Dunsmore Jameson, who turned out to be the sire
of strapping yearlings, two- and three-year-olds, which carried all
before them in the show ring for several years, and a three-year-old
son made the highest price ever realized at any of the Dunsmore Sales,
when the stud was dispersed in 1909.This was 1025 guineas given by
Lord Middleton for Dunsmore Jameson II.For four years in succession,
1903 to 1906, Dunsmore Jameson sired the highest number of winners, not
only in London, but at all the principal shows.His service fee was
fifteen guineas to “approved mares only,” a high figure for a horse
which had only won at the Shire Horse Show as a yearling.Among others
he sired Dunsmore Raider, who in turn begot Dunsmore Chessie, Champion
mare at the London Shows of 1912 and 1913.Jameson contained the blood
of Lincolnshire Lad on both sides of his pedigree.By the 1907 show
another sire had come to the front, and his success was phenomenal;
this was Lockinge Forest King, bred by the late Lord Wantage in 1889,
purchased by the late Mr.J. P. Cross, of Catthorpe Towers, Rugby, who
won first prize, and reserve for the junior cup with him in London as
a three-year-old, also first and champion at the (Carlisle) Royal
Show the same year, 1902.It is worth while to study the breeding of
Lockinge Forest King._Sire_--Lockinge Manners._Great grand sire_--Harold._Great great grand sire_--Lincolnshire Lad II._Great great great grand sire_--Lincolnshire Lad 1196 (Drew’s).The dam of Lockinge Forest King was The Forest Queen (by Royal Albert,
1885, a great sire in his day); she was first prize winner at the Royal
Show, Nottingham, 1888, first and champion, Peterborough, 1888, first
Bath and West, 1887 and 1888, and numerous other prizes.Her dam traced
back to (Dack’s) Matchless (1509), a horse which no less an authority
than the late Mr.James Forshaw described as “the sire of all time.”

This accounts for the marvellous success of Lockinge Forest King as a
stud horse, although his success, unlike Jameson’s, came rather late in
his life of ten years.We have already seen that he
has sired the highest priced Shire mare publicly sold.At the Newcastle
Royal of 1908, both of the gold medal winners were by him, so were
the two champions at the 1909 Shire Horse Show.His most illustrious
family was bred by a tenant farmer, Mr.John Bradley, Halstead, Tilton,
Leicester.The eldest member is Halstead Royal Duke, the London
Champion of 1909, Halstead Blue Blood, 3rd in London, 1910, both owned
by Lord Rothschild, and Halstead Royal Duchess, who won the junior cup
in London for her breeder in 1912.The dam of the trio is Halstead
Duchess III by Menestrel, by Hitchin Conqueror (London Champion, 1890).Two other matrons deserve to be mentioned, as they will always shine in
the history of the Shire breed.One is Lockington Beauty by Champion
457, who died at a good old age at Batsford Park, having produced
Prince William, the champion referred to more than once in these pages,
his sire being William the Conqueror.Then Marmion II (by Harold),
who was first in London in 1891, and realized 1400 guineas at Mr.Also a daughter, Blue Ruin, which won at London Show
of 1889 for Mr.R. N. Sutton-Nelthorpe, but, unfortunately, died from
foaling in that year.Another famous son was Mars Victor, a horse of
great size, and also a London winner, on more than one occasion.Freeman-Mitford (Lord
Redesdale) in the year of his sire’s--Hitchin Conqueror’s--championship
in 1890, for the sum of £1500.Blue Ruin was own sister to Prince William, but the other three were by
different sires.To look at--I saw her in 1890--Lockington Beauty was quite a common
mare with obviously small knees, and none too much weight and width,
her distinguishing feature being a mane of extraordinary length.The remaining dam to be mentioned as a great breeder is Nellie
Blacklegs by Bestwick’s Prince, famous for having bred five sons--which
were all serving mares in the year 1891--and a daughter, all by
Premier.The first was Northwood, a horse used long and successfully by
Lord Middleton and the sire of Birdsall Darling, the dam of Birdsall
Menestrel, London champion of 1904.The second, Hydrometer, first
in London in 1889, then sold to the late Duke of Marlborough, and
purchased when his stud was dispersed in 1893 by the Warwick Shire
Horse Society for 600 guineas.A.
C. Duncombe’s sale in 1891 for 1100 guineas, a record in those days,
to Mr.F. Crisp, who let him to the Peterborough Society in 1892 for
£500.Calwich Topsman, another son, realized 500 guineas when sold, and
Senator made 350.The daughter, rightly named “Sensible,” bred Mr.John
Smith of Ellastone, Ashbourne, a colt foal by Harold in 1893, which
turned out to be Markeaton Royal Harold, the champion stallion of 1897.This chapter was headed “A few records,” and surely this set up by
Premier and Nellie Blacklegs is one.The record show of the Shire Horse Society, as regards the number of
entries, was that of 1904, with a total of 862; the next for size was
the 1902 meeting when 860 were catalogued.Of course the smallest
show was the initial one of 1880, when 76 stallions and 34 mares made
a total of 110 entries.The highest figure yet made in the public
auction sales held at the London Show is 1175 guineas given by Mr.R. Heath, Biddulph Grange, Staffs., in 1911 for Rickford Coming
King, a three-year-old bred by the late Lord Winterstoke, and sold by
his executors, after having won fourth in his class, although first
and reserve for the junior cup as a two-year-old.He was sired by
Ravenspur, with which King Edward won first prize in London, 1906,
his price of 825 guineas to Lord Winterstoke at the Wolferton Sale
of February 8, 1907, being the highest at any sale of that year.The
lesson to be learned is that if you want to create a record with Shires
you must begin and continue with well-bred ones, or you will never
reach the desired end.CHAPTER XIII

JUDGES AT THE LONDON SHOWS, 1890-1915


The following are the Judges of a quarter of a century’s Shires in
London:--

    1890.Clark, A. H., Moulton Eaugate, Spalding, Lincs.Chapman, George, Radley, Hungerford, Berks.Morton, John, West Rudham, Swaffham, Norfolk.Nix, John, Alfreton, Derbyshire.Blundell, Peter, Ream Hills, Weeton Kirkham, Lancs.Hill, Joseph B., Smethwick Hall, Congleton, Cheshire.Morton, Joseph, Stow, Downham Market, Norfolk.Smith, Henry, The Grove, Cropwell Butler, Notts.Heaton, Captain, Worsley, Manchester.Morton, John, West Rudham, Swaffham, Norfolk.Nix, John, Alfreton, Derbyshire.Rowland, John W., Fishtoft, Boston, Lincs.Byron, A. W., Duckmanton Lodge, Chesterfield, Derbyshire.Crowther, James F., Knowl Grove, Mirfield, Yorks.Douglas, C. I., 34, Dalebury Road, Upper Tooting, London.Smith, Henry, The Grove, Cropwell Butler, Notts.Heaton, Captain, Worsley, Manchester.Chamberlain, C. R., Riddings Farm, Alfreton, Derbyshire.Tindall, C. W., Brocklesby Park, Lincs.Rowland, John W., Fishtoft, Boston, Lincs.Clark, A. H., Moulton Eaugate, Spalding, Lincs.Freshney, T. B., South Somercotes, Louth, Lincs.Rowell, John, Manor Farm, Bury, Huntingdon.Smith, Henry, The Grove, Cropwell Butler, Notts.Green, Edward, The Moors, Welshpool.Potter, W. H., Barberry House, Ullesthorpe, Rugby.Rowland, John W., Fishtoft, Boston, Lincs.Chamberlain, C. R., Riddings Farm, Alfreton, Derbyshire.Lewis, John, Trwstllewelyn, Garthmyl, Mont.Wainwright, Joseph, Corbar, Buxton, Derbyshire.Clark, A. H., Moulton Eaugate, Spalding, Lincs.Freshney, T. B., South Somercotes, Louth, Lincs.Richardson, Wm., London Road, Chatteris, Cambs.Green, Edward, The Moors, Welshpool.Griffin, F. W., Borough Fen, Peterborough.Welch, William, North Rauceby, Grantham, Lincs.Clark, A. H., Moulton Eaugate, Spalding, Lincs.Forshaw, James, Carlton-on-Trent, Newark, Notts.Paisley, Joseph, Waresley, Sandy, Beds.Eadie, J. T. C., Barrow Hall, Derby.Heaton, Captain, Worsley, Manchester.Freshney, T. B., South Somercotes, Louth, Lincs.Clark, A. H., Moulton Eaugate, Spalding, Lincs.Griffin, F. W., Borough Fen, Peterborough.Rowell, John, Manor Farm, Bury, Huntingdon.Nix, John, Alfreton, Derbyshire.Richardson, William, Eastmoor House, Doddington, Cambs.Grimes, Joseph, Highfield, Palterton, Chesterfield, Derbyshire.Freshney, T. B., South Somercotes, Louth, Lincs.Smith, Henry, The Grove, Cropwell Butler, Notts.Whinnerah, James, Warton Hall, Carnforth, Lancs.Clark, A. H., Moulton Eaugate, Spalding, Lincs.Blundell, John, Ream Hills, Weeton Kirkham, Lancs.Green, Edward, The Moors, Welshpool.Eadie, J. T. C., The Knowle, Hazelwood, Derby.Rowell, John, Bury, Huntingdon.Green, Thomas, The Bank, Pool Quay, Welshpool.Griffin, F. W., Borough Fen, Peterborough.Paisley, Joseph, Moresby House, Whitehaven.Whinnerah, Edward, Warton Hall, Carnforth, Lancs.Clark, A. H., Moulton Eaugate, Spalding, Lincs.Blundell, John, Lower Burrow, Scotforth, Lancs.Howkins, W., Hillmorton Grounds, Rugby.Eadie, J. T. C., The Rock, Newton Solney, Burton-on-Trent.Rowell, John, Bury, Huntingdon.Thompson, W., jun., Desford, Leicester.Blundell, John, Lower Burrow, Scotforth, Lancs.Cowing, G., Yatesbury, Calne, Wilts.Green, Edward, The Moors, Welshpool.Green, Thomas, The Bank, Pool Quay, Welshpool.Gould, James, Crouchley Lymm, Cheshire.Measures, John, Dunsby, Bourne, Lincs.Clark, A. H., Moulton Eaugate, Spalding, Lincs.Flowers, A. J., Beachendon, Aylesbury, Bucks.Whinnerah, Edward Warton, Carnforth, Lancs.Blundell, John, Lower Burrow, Scotforth, Lancs.Betts, E. W., Babingley, King’s Lynn, Norfolk.Griffin, F. W., Borough Fen, Peterborough.Forshaw, Thomas, Carlton-on-Trent, Newark, Notts.Keene, R. H., Westfield, Medmenham, Marlow, Bucks.Thompson, William, jun., Kibworth Beauchamp, Leicester.Eadie, J. T. C., Newton Solney, Burton-on-Trent.Green, Edward, The Moors, Welshpool.Mackereth, Henry Whittington, Kirkby Lonsdale, Lancs.This list is interesting for the reason that those who have awarded
the prizes at the Shire Horse Show have, to a great extent, fixed the
type to find favour at other important shows.Very often the same
judges have officiated at several important exhibitions during the
same season, which has tended towards uniformity in prize-winning
Shires.On looking down the list, it will be seen that four judges
were appointed till 1895, while the custom of the Society to get its
Council from as many counties as possible has not been followed in
the matter of judges’ selection.For instance, Warwickshire--a great
county for Shire breeding--has only provided two judges in twenty-six
years, and one of them--Mr.Potter--had recently come from Lockington
Grounds, Derby, where he bred the renowned Prince William.For many
years Hertfordshire has provided a string of winners, yet no judge has
hailed from that county, or from Surrey, which contains quite a number
of breeders of Shire horses.No fault whatever is being found with the
way the judging has been carried out.It is no light task, and nobody
but an expert could, or should, undertake it; but it is only fair to
point out that high-class Shires are, and have been, bred in Cornwall,
and Devonshire, Kent, and every other county, while the entries at the
show of 1914 included a stallion bred in the Isle of Man.In 1890, as elsewhere stated, the membership of the Society was 1615,
whereas the number of members given in the 1914 volume of the Stud Book
is 4200.The aim of each and all is “to improve the Old English breed
of Cart Horses,” many of which may now be truthfully described by their
old title of “War Horses.”




CHAPTER XIV

THE EXPORT TRADE


Among the first to recognize the enormous power and possibilities of
the Shire were the Americans.Very few London shows had been held
before they were looking out for fully-registered specimens to take
across the Atlantic.Towards the close of the ’eighties a great export
trade was done, the climax being reached in 1889, when the Shire Horse
Society granted 1264 export certificates.A society to safeguard the
interests of the breed was formed in America, these being the remarks
of Mr.A. Galbraith (President of the American Shire Horse Society) in
his introductory essay: “At no time in the history of the breed have
first-class animals been so valuable as now, the praiseworthy endeavour
to secure the best specimens of the breed having the natural effect of
enhancing prices all round.Breeders of Shire horses both in England
and America have a hopeful and brilliant future before them, and by
exercising good judgment in their selections, and giving due regard to
pedigree and soundness, as well as individual merit, they will not only
reap a rich pecuniary reward, but prove a blessing and a benefit to
this country.”

From the day that the Shire Horse Society was incorporated, on June
3, 1878, until now, America has been Britain’s best overseas customer
for Shire horses, a good second being our own colony, the Dominion of
Canada.Another stockbreeding country to make an early discovery of the
merits of “The Great Horse” was Argentina, to which destination many
good Shires have gone.In 1906 the number given in the Stud Book was
118.So much importance is attached to the breed both in the United
States and in the Argentine Republic that English judges have travelled
to each of those country’s shows to award the prizes in the Shire
Classes.Another great country with which a good and growing trade has been done
is Russia.In 1904 the number was eleven, in 1913 it had increased to
fifty-two, so there is evidently a market there which is certain to be
extended when peace has been restored and our powerful ally sets about
the stupendous, if peaceful, task of replenishing her horse stock.Our other allies have their own breeds of draught horses, therefore
they have not been customers for Shires, but with war raging in their
breeding grounds, the numbers must necessarily be reduced almost to
extinction, consequently the help of the Shire may be sought for
building up their breeds in days to come.German buyers have not fancied Shire horses to any extent--British-bred
re-mounts have been more in their line.In 1905, however, Germany was the destination of thirty-one.By 1910
the number had declined to eleven, and in 1913 to three, therefore, if
the export of trade in Shires to “The Fatherland” is altogether lost,
English breeders will scarcely feel it.Australia, New Zealand, and South Africa are parts of the British
Empire to which Shires have been shipped for several years.Substantial
prizes in the shape of Cups and Medals are now given by the Shire
Horse Society to the best specimens of the breed exhibited at Foreign
and Colonial Shows.ENCOURAGING THE EXPORT OF SHIRES

The following is reprinted from the “Farmer and Stockbreeder Year Book”
for 1906, and was written by S. H. L.(J. A. Frost):--

    “The Old English breed of cart horse, or ‘Shire,’ is
    universally admitted to be the best and most valuable animal
    for draught purposes in the world, and a visitor from America,
    Mr.Morrow, of the United States Department of Agriculture,
    speaking at Mr.John Rowell’s sale of Shires in 1889, said,
    ‘Great as had been the business done in Shire horses in
    America, the trade is but in its infancy, for the more Shire
    horses became known, and the more they came into competition
    with other breeds, the more their merits for all heavy draught
    purposes were appreciated.’

    “These remarks are true to-day, for although sixteen years have
    elapsed since they were made (1906), the massive Shire has more
    than held his own, but in the interests of the breed, and of
    the nearly four thousand members of the Shire Horse Society,
    it is still doubtful whether the true worth of the Shire
    horse is properly known and appreciated in foreign countries
    and towns needing heavy horses, and whether the export trade
    in this essentially British breed is not capable of further
    development.The number of export certificates granted by the
    Shire Horse Society in 1889 was 1264, which takes a good deal
    of beating, but it must be remembered that since then Shire
    horse breeding at home has progressed by leaps and bounds,
    and tenant farmers, who could only look on in those days,
    are now members of the flourishing Shire Horse Society and
    owners of breeding studs, and such prices as 800 guineas for a
    two-year-old filly and 230 guineas for a nine-months-old colt,
    are less frequently obtainable than they were then; therefore,
    an increase in the demand from other countries would find more
    Shire breeders ready to supply it, although up to the present
    the home demand has been and is very good, and weighty geldings
    continue to be scarce and dear.”


THE NUMBER EXPORTED

“It may be true that the number of horses exported during the last year
or two has been higher than ever, but when the average value of those
that go to ‘other countries’ than Holland, Belgium, and France, is
worked out, it does not allow of such specimens as would excite the
admiration of a foreign merchant or Colonial farmer being exported,
except in very isolated instances; then the tendency of American buyers
is to give preference to stallions which are on the quality rather than
on the weighty side, and as the mares to which they are eventually put
are also light boned, the typical English dray horse is not produced.“During the past year (1905) foreign buyers have been giving very
high prices for Shorthorn cattle, and if they would buy in the same
spirited manner at the Shire sales, a much more creditable animal
could be obtained for shipment.As an advertisement for the Shire
it is obviously beneficial that the Shire Horse Society--which is
unquestionably the most successful breed society in existence--gives
prizes for breeding stock and also geldings at a few of the most
important horse shows in the United States.This tends to bring the
breed into prominence abroad, and it is certain that many Colonial
farmers would rejoice at being able to breed working geldings of a
similar type to those which may be seen shunting trucks on any large
railway station in England, or walking smartly along in front of a
binder in harvest.The writer has a relative farming in the North-West
Territory of Canada, and his last letter says, ‘The only thing in
the stock line that there is much money in now is horses; they are
keeping high, and seem likely to for years, as so many new settlers are
coming in all the time, and others do not seem able to raise enough
for their own needs’; and it may be mentioned that almost the only
kind of stallions available there are of the Percheron breed, which
is certainly not calculated to improve the size, or substance, of the
native draught horse stock.THE COST OF SHIPPING

“The cost of shipping a horse from Liverpool to New York is about £11,
which is not prohibitive for such an indispensable animal as the Shire
horse, and if such specimens of the breed as the medal winners at shows
like Peterborough could be exhibited in the draught horse classes at
the best horse shows of America, it is more than probable that at least
some of the visitors would be impressed with their appearance, and an
increase in the export trade in Shires might thereby be brought about.“A few years ago the price of high-class Shire stallions ran upwards of
a thousand pounds, which placed them beyond the reach of exporters;
but the reign of what may be called ‘fancy’ prices appears to be
over, at least for a time, seeing that the general sale averages have
declined since that of Lord Llangattock in October, 1900, when the
record average of £226 1_s._ 8_d._ was made, although the best general
average for the sales of any single year was obtained in 1901, viz.£112 5_s._ 10_d._ for 633 animals, and it was during that year that the
highest price for Shires was obtained at an auction sale, the sum being
1550 guineas, given by Mr.Leopold Salomons, for the stallion Hendre
Champion, at the late Mr.Crisp’s sale at Girton.Other high-priced
stallions purchased by auction include Marmion II., 1400 guineas, and
Chancellor, 1100 guineas, both by Mr.Waresley Premier Duke,
1100 guineas, and Hendre Crown Prince, 1100 guineas, were two purchases
of Mr.These figures show that the
worth of a really good Shire stallion can hardly be estimated, and
it is certain that the market for this particular class of animal is
by no means glutted, but rather the reverse, as the number of males
offered at the stud sales is always limited, which proves that there
is ‘room on the top’ for the stallion breeder, and with this fact in
view and the possible chance of an increased foreign trade in stallions
it behoves British breeders of Shires to see to it that there is no
falling off in the standard of the horses ‘raised,’ to use the American
word, but rather that a continual improvement is aimed at, so that
visitors from horse-breeding countries may find what they want if they
come to ‘the stud farm of the world.’

“The need to keep to the right lines and breed from good old stock
which has produced real stock-getting stallions cannot be too strongly
emphasised, for the reason that there is a possibility of the British
market being overstocked with females, with a corresponding dearth of
males, both stallions and geldings, and although this is a matter which
breeders cannot control they can at least patronise a strain of blood
famous for its males.The group of Premier--Nellie Blacklegs’ brothers,
Northwood, Hydrometer, Senator, and Calwich Topsman--may be quoted as
showing the advisability of continuing to use the same horse year after
year if colt foals are bred, and wanted, and the sire is a horse of
merit.“With the number of breeders of Shire horses and the plentiful supply
of mares, together with the facilities offered by local stallion-hiring
societies, it ought not to be impossible to breed enough high-grade
sires to meet the home demand and leave a surplus for export as well,
and the latter of the class that will speak for themselves in other
countries, and lead to enquiries for more of the same sort.FEW HIGH PRICES FROM EXPORTERS

“It is noteworthy that few, if any, of the high prices obtained for
Shires at public sales have come from exporters or buyers from abroad,
but from lovers of the heavy breed in England, who have been either
forming or replenishing studs, therefore, ‘the almighty dollar’ has not
been responsible for the figures above quoted.Still it is probable
that with the opening up of the agricultural industry in Western
Canada, South Africa, and elsewhere, Shire stallions will be needed to
help the Colonial settlers to build up a breed of horses which will be
useful for both tillage and haulage purposes.“The adaptability of the Shire horse to climate and country is well
known, and it is satisfactory for home breeders to hear that Mr.Martinez de Hoz has recently sold ten Shires, bred in Argentina, at an
average of £223 2_s._ 6_d._, one, a three-year-old, making £525.“Meanwhile it might be a good investment if a syndicate of British
breeders placed a group of typical Shire horses in a few of the biggest
fairs or shows in countries where weighty horses are wanted, and thus
further the interests of the Shire abroad, and assist in developing the
export trade.”

It may be added that during the summer of 1906, H.M.King Edward and
Lord Rothschild sent a consignment of Shires to the United States of
America for exhibition.CHAPTER XV

PROMINENT PRESENT-DAY STUDS


Seeing that Lord Rothschild has won the greatest number of challenge
cups and holds the record for having made the highest price, his name
is mentioned first among owners of famous studs.He joined the Shire Horse Society in February, 1891, and at the show
of 1892 made five entries for the London Show at which he purchased
the second prize three-year-old stallion Carbonite (by Carbon by
Lincolnshire Lad II.)He is
remembered by the writer as being a wide and weighty horse on short
legs which carried long hair in attendance, and this type has been
found at Tring Park ever since.In 1895 his lordship won first and
third with two chestnut fillies--Vulcan’s Flower by the Champion Vulcan
and Walkern Primrose by Hitchin Duke (by Bar None).The former won the
Filly Cup and was subsequently sold to help to found the famous stud
of Sir Walpole Greenwell at Marden Park, Surrey, the sum given being a
very high one for those days.The first championship was obtained with the mare Alston Rose in 1901,
which won like honours for Mr.R. W. Hudson in 1902, after costing him
750 guineas at the second sale at Tring Park, January 15, 1902.Solace, bred by King Edward, was the next champion mare from Lord
Rothschild’s stud.Girton Charmer, winner of the Challenge Cup in
1905, was included in a select shipment of Shires sent to America (as
models of the breed) by our late lamented King and Lord Rothschild in
1906.Princess Beryl, Belle Cole, Chiltern Maid, were mares to win
highest honours for the stud, while a young mare which passed through
Lord Rothschild’s hands, and realized a four-figure sum for him as
a two-year-old from the Devonshire enthusiasts, Messrs.W. and H.
Whitley, is Lorna Doone, the Champion mare of 1914.Champion’s Goalkeeper, the Tring record-breaker, has been mentioned,
so we can now refer to the successful stud of which he is the central
figure, viz.that owned by Sir Walpole Greenwell at Marden Park,
Woldingham, Surrey, who, as we have seen, bought a good filly from the
Tring Stud in 1895, the year in which he became a member of the Shire
Horse Society.At Lord Rothschild’s first sale in 1898, he purchased
Windley Lily for 430 guineas, and Moorish Maiden, a three-year-old
filly, for 350, since when he has bid only for the best.At the
Tandridge dispersion sale he gave over a thousand pounds for the
Lockinge Forest King mare, Fuchsia of Tandridge, and her foal.Sir
Walpole was one of the first to profit by the Lockinge Forest King
blood, his filly, Marden Peach, by that sire having been a winner at
the Royal of 1908, while her daughter, Marden Constance, has had a
brilliant show career, so has Dunsmore Chessie, purchased from Mr.T.
Ewart as a yearling, twice London Champion mare.No sale has been held at Marden, but consignments have been sold at
Peterborough, so that the prefix is frequently met with.The stud owner who is willing to give £4305 for a two-year-old colt
deserves success.THE PRIMLEY STUD

At the Dunsmore Sale on February 14, 1907, Mr.W. Whitley purchased
Dunsmore Fuchsia (by Jameson), the London Cup winner of 1905 and 1906,
for 520 guineas, also Quality by the same sire, and these two won
second and third for him in London the same month, this being the first
show at which the Primley shires took honours.The purchase of Tatton Dray King, the Champion stallion of 1908, by
Messrs.W. and H. Whitley in the spring of 1909 for 3700 guineas
created quite a sensation, as it was an outstanding record, it stood so
for nearly four years.One of the most successful show mares in this--or any--stud is
Mollington Movement by Lockinge Forest King, but the reigning queen is
Lorna Doone, the London and Peterborough Champion of 1914, purchased
privately from the Tring Park Stud.Another built on the same lines
is Sussex Pride with which a Bucks tenant farmer, Mr.R. H. Keene,
won first and reserve champion at the London Show of 1913, afterwards
selling her to Messrs.Whitley, who again won with her in 1914.With
such animals as these Devonshire is likely to hold its own with Shires,
although they do not come from the district known to the law makers of
old as the breeding ground of “the Great Horse.”


THE PENDLEY FEMALES

One of the most successful exhibitors of mares, fillies, and foals, at
the shows of the past few seasons has been Mr.J. G. Williams, Pendley
Manor, Tring.Like other exhibitors already mentioned, the one under
notice owes much of his success to Lockinge Forest King.In 1908 Lord
Egerton’s Tatton May Queen was purchased for 420 guineas, she having
been first in London as a yearling and two-year-old; Bardon Forest
Princess, a reserve London Champion, and Barnfields Forest Queen, Cup
winner there, made a splendid team of winners by the sire named.At the
Tring Park sale of 1913 Mr.Williams gave the highest price made by
a female, 825 guineas, for Halstead Duchess VII., by Redlynch Forest
King.She won the Royal Championship at Bristol for him.One of the
later acquisitions is Snelston Lady, by Slipton King, Cup winner and
reserve Champion in London, 1914, as a three-year-old, first at the
Royal, and reserve Champion at Peterborough.Williams joined the
Shire Horse Society in 1906, since when he has won all but the London
Championship with his mares and fillies.A NEW STUD

After Champion’s Goalkeeper was knocked down Mr.Beck announced that
the disappointed bidder was Mr.C. R. H. Gresson, acting for the
Edgcote Shorthorn Company, Wardington, Banbury, his date of admission
to the Shire Horse Society being during that same month, February,
1913.Having failed to get the popular colt, his stable companion and
half brother, Stockman III., was purchased for 540 guineas, and shown
in London just after, where he won fourth prize.From this single entry
in 1913 the foundation of the stud was so rapid that seven entries
were made at the 1914 London Show.Fine Feathers was the first prize
yearling filly, Blackthorn Betty the second prize two-year-old filly,
the own bred Edgcote Monarch being the second prize yearling colt.After the show Lord Rothschild’s first prize two-year colt, Orfold
Blue Blood, was bought, together with Normandy Jessie, the third prize
yearling colt; so with these two, Fine Feathers, Betty, Chirkenhill
Forest Queen, and Writtle Coming Queen, the Edgcote Shorthorn Co.,
Ltd., took a leading place at the shows of 1914.In future Edgcote
promises to be as famous for its Shires as it has hitherto been for its
Shorthorns.DUCAL STUDS

A very successful exhibitor of the past season has been his Grace
the Duke of Westminster, who owns a very good young sire in Eaton
Nunsuch--so good that he has been hired by the Peterborough Society.Shires have been bred on the Eaton Hall estate for many years, and the
stud contains many promising animals now.Mention must be made of the great interest taken in Shires by the Duke
of Devonshire who, as the Hon.Victor Cavendish, kept a first-class
stud at Holker, Lancs.At the Royal Show of 1909 (Gloucester) Holker
Mars was the Champion Shire stallion, Warton Draughtsman winning the
Norwich Royal Championship, and also that of the London Show of 1912
for his popular owner.OTHER STUDS

Among those who have done much to promote the breeding of the Old
English type of cart-horse, the name of Mr.Clement Keevil deserves
a foremost place.At Blagdon, Malden, Surrey, he held a number of
stud sales in the eighties and nineties, to which buyers went for
massive-limbed Shires of the good old strains; those with a pedigree
which traced back to Honest Tom (_alias_ Little David), foaled in the
year 1769, to Wiseman’s Honest Tom, foaled in 1800, or to Samson a sire
weighing 1 ton 8 cwt.Later he had a stud at Billington, Beds, where
several sales were held, the last being in 1908, when Mr.Everard gave
860 guineas for the stallion, Lockinge Blagdon.Shortly before that he
sold Blagdon Benefactor for 1000 guineas.The prefix “Birdsall” has been seen in show catalogues for a number of
years, which mean that the animals holding it were bred, or owned, by
Lord Middleton, at Birdsall, York, he being one of the first noblemen
to found a stud, and he has ably filled the Presidential Chair of the
Shire Horse Society.As long ago as the 1892 London Show there were two
entries from Birdsall by Lord Middleton’s own sire, Northwood, to which
reference is made elsewhere.Another notable sire purchased by his lordship was Menestrel, first in
London, 1900 (by Hitchin Conqueror), his most famous son being Birdsall
Menestrel, dam Birdsall Darling by Northwood, sold to Lord Rothschild
as a yearling.As a two-year-old this colt was Cup winner and reserve
Champion, and at four he was Challenge Cup winner.A good bidder at
Shire sales, the breeder of a champion, and a consistent supporter of
the Shire breeding industry since 1883, it is regrettable that champion
honours have not fallen to Lord Middleton himself.Another stud, which was founded near Leeds, by Mr.A. Grandage, has
now been removed to Cheshire.Joining the Shire Horse Society in 1892,
his first entry in London was made in 1893, and four years later, in
1897, Queen of the Shires (by Harold) won the mare Championship for Mr.In 1909 the winning four-year-old stallion, Gaer Conqueror, of
Lincolnshire Lad descent, was bought from Mr.Edward Green for 825
guineas, which proved to be a real good investment for Mr.Grandage,
seeing that he won the championship of the Shire Horse Show for the two
following years, 1910 and 1911.Candidates from the Bramhope Stud, Monks Heath, Chelford, Cheshire, are
likely to give a very good account of themselves in the days to come.Among those who will have the best Shires is Sir Arthur Nicholson,
Highfield, Leek, Staffs.His first London success was third prize with
Rokeby Friar (by Harold) as a two-year-old in 1893, since which date he
has taken a keen personal interest in the breeding of Shire horses, and
has the honour of having purchased Pailton Sorais, the highest-priced
mare yet sold by auction.At the Tring sale of 1913 he gave the second
highest price of that day, viz., 1750 guineas for the three-year-old
stallion, Blacklands Kingmaker, who won first prize for him in London
ten days after, but, alas, was taken ill during his season, for the
Winslow Shire Horse Society, and died.Another bad loss to Sir Arthur
and to Shire breeders generally was the death of Redlynch Forest King,
seeing that he promised to rival his renowned sire, Lockinge Forest
King, for begetting show animals.Among the many good ones recently exhibited from the stud may be
mentioned Leek Dorothy, twice first in London, and Leek Challenger,
first as a yearling, second as a two-year-old, both of these being by
Redlynch Forest King.With such as these coming on there is a future
before the Shires of Sir Arthur Nicholson.The name of Muntz is familiar to all Shire breeders owing to the fame
achieved by the late Sir P. Albert Muntz.F. E. Muntz,
of Umberslade, Hockley Heath, Warwickshire, a nephew of the Dunsmore
Baronet, joined the Shire Horse Society, and has since been President.Quite a good share of prizes have fallen to him, including the Cup for
the best old stallion in London both in 1913 and 1914.The winner,
Danesfield Stonewall, was reserved for the absolute championship on
both occasions, and this typical “Old English Black” had a host of
admirers, while Jones--the Umberslade stud groom--will never forget his
parade before His Majesty King George at the 1913 show.It used to be said that Shires did not flourish south of London, but
Mr.Leopold Salomons, Norbury Park, Dorking, has helped to prove
otherwise.Beginning with one entry at the 1899 Show, he has entered
quite a string for several years, and the stud contains a number of
high-class stallions, notably Norbury Menestrel, winner of many prizes,
and a particularly well-bred and promising sire, and King of Tandridge
(by Lockinge Forest King), purchased by Mr.Salomons at the Tandridge
dispersion sale for 1600 guineas.At the sale during the London Show of
1914 Mr.Salomons realized the highest price with his own bred Norbury
Coronation, by Norbury Menestrel, who, after winning third prize in his
class, cost the Leigh Shire Horse Society 850 guineas, Norbury George,
by the same sire, winning fifth prize, and making 600 guineas, both
being three years old.This is the kind of advertisement for a stud,
no matter where its situation.Another Surrey enthusiast is Sir Edward Stern, Fan Court, Chertsey, who
has been a member of the Shire Horse Society since 1903.He purchased
Danesfield Stonewall from Mr.R. W. Hudson, and won several prizes
before re-selling him to Mr.His stud horses now includes
Marathon II., champion at the Oxford County Show of 1910.Mares and
fillies have also been successfully shown at the Royal Counties, and
other meetings in the south of England from the Fan Court establishment.A fine lot of Shires have been got together, at Tarnacre House,
Garstang, and the first prize yearling at the London Show of 1914,
King’s Choice, was bred by Messrs.J. E. and A. W. Potter, who also won
first with Monnow Drayman, the colt with which Mr.John Ferneyhough
took first prize as a three-year-old.With stallions of his type and
mares as wide, deep, and well-bred as Champion’s Choice (by Childwick
Champion), Shires full of character should be forthcoming from these
Lancashire breeders.The Carlton Stud continues to flourish, although its founder, the late
Mr.James Forshaw, departed this life in 1908.His business abilities
and keen judgment have been inherited by his sons, one of whom judged
in London last year (1914), as his father did in 1900.This being a
record in Shire Horse history for father and son to judge at the great
Show of the breed.Carlton has always been famous for its stallions.It has furnished
London winners from the first, including the Champions Stroxton Tom
(1902 and 1903), Present King II.(1906), and Stolen Duchess, the
Challenge Cup winning mare of 1907.Forshaw and his sons are too numerous
to mention in detail.Another very
impressive stallion was What’s Wanted, the sire of Mr.A. C. Duncombe’s
Premier (also mentioned in another chapter), and a large family of
celebrated sons.His great grandsire was (Dack’s) Matchless 1509, a
great sire in the Fen country, which travelled through Moulton Eaugate
for thirteen consecutive seasons.Forshaw’s opinion
of him is given on another page.One of the most successful Carlton
sires of recent years has been Drayman XXIII., whose son, Tatton Dray
King, won highest honours in London, and realized 3700 guineas when
sold.Seeing that prizes were being won by stallions from this stud
through several decades of last century, and that a large number have
been travelled each season since, while a very large export trade has
been done by Messrs.Forshaw and Sons, it need hardly be said that the
influence of this stud has been world-wide.It is impossible to mention all the existing studs in a little book
like this, but three others will be now mentioned for the reason that
they are carried on by those who formerly managed successful studs,
therefore they have “kept the ball rolling,” viz.Thomas
Ewart, at Dunsmore, who made purchases on his own behalf when the stud
of the late Sir P. A. Muntz--which he had managed for so long--was
dispersed, and has since brought out many winners, the most famous of
which is Dunsmore Chessie.R. H. Keene, under whose care the Shires
of Mr.R. W. Hudson (Past-President of the Shire Horse Society) at
Danesfield attained to such prominence, although not actually taking
over the prefix, took a large portion of the land, and carries on Shire
breeding quite successfully on his own account.The other of this class to be named is Mr.C. E. McKenna, who took over
the Bardon stud from Mr.B. N. Everard when the latter decided to let
the Leicestershire stud farm where Lockinge Forest King spent his last
and worthiest years.Such enterprise gives farmers and men of moderate
means faith in the great and growing industry of Shire Horse breeding.Of stud owners who have climbed to prominence, although neither
landowners, merchant princes, nor erstwhile stud managers, may be
mentioned Mr.James Gould, Crouchley Lymm, Cheshire, whose Snowdon
Menestrel was first in his class and reserve for the Stallion Cup at
the 1914 London Show; Messrs.E. and J. Whinnerah, Warton, Carnforth,
who won seventh prize with Warton Draughtsman in 1910, afterwards
selling him to the Duke of Devonshire, who reached the top of the tree
with him two years later.Henry Mackereth, the new London judge of 1915, entered the
exhibitors’ list at the London Show of 1899.Perhaps his most notable
horse is Lunesdale Kingmaker, with which Lord Rothschild won fourth
prize in 1907, he being the sire of Messrs.Potter’s King’s Choice
above mentioned.Many other studs well meriting notice could be dealt with did time and
space permit, including that of a tenant farmer who named one of his
best colts “Sign of Riches,” which must be regarded as an advertisement
for the breed from a farmer’s point of view.Of past studs only one will be mentioned, that of the late Sir Walter
Gilbey, the dispersal having taken place on January 13, 1915.The first
Shire sale at Elsenham was held in 1885--thirty years ago--when the
late Lord Wantage gave the highest price, 475 guineas, for Glow, by
Spark, the average of £172 4_s._ 6_d._ being unbeaten till the Scawby
sale of 1891 (which was £198 17_s._ 3_d._).Sir Walter has been mentioned as one of the founders of the Shire Horse
Society; his services in aid of horse breeding were recognized by
presenting him with his portrait in oils, the subscribers numbering
1250.The presentation was made by King Edward (then Prince of Wales)
at the London Show of 1891.CHAPTER XVI

THE FUTURE OUTLOOK


This book is written when war, and all that pertains to it, is the
absorbing topic.In fact, no other will be listened to.What is
the good of talking about such a peaceful occupation as that of
agriculture while the nation is fighting for its very existence?To a
certain extent this can be understood, but stock breeding, and more
particularly horse breeding, cannot be suspended for two or three
seasons and then resumed without causing a gap in the supply of horses
coming along for future use.The cry of the army authorities is for “more and more men,” together
with a demand for a constant supply of horses of many types, including
the weight-moving War Horse, and if the supply is used up, with no
provision being made for a quantity of four-footed recruits to haul the
guns or baggage waggons in the days to come, the British Army, and
most others, will be faced with a problem not easily solved.The motor-mad mechanic may think that his chance has come, but generals
who have to lead an army over water-logged plains, or snow-covered
mountains, will demand horses, hitherto--and henceforth--indispensable
for mounting soldiers on, rushing their guns quickly into position, or
drawing their food supplies and munitions of war after them.When the mechanic has provided horseless vehicles to do all this,
horse breeding can be ignored by fighting men--not before.But horses,
particularly draft horses, are needed for commercial use.So far, coal
merchants are horse users, while brewers, millers, and other lorry
users have not altogether discarded the horse-drawn vehicle.For taking loads to and from the landing stage at Liverpool heavy
horses will be in great demand after the war--perhaps greater than they
have ever been.The railways will continue to exist, and, while they
do, powerful Shire geldings must be employed; no other can put the
necessary weight into the collar for shunting loaded trucks.During the autumn of 1914 no other kind of advice--although they got
plenty of it--was so freely and so frequently given to farmers as this,
“grow more wheat.”

If this has been acted upon, and there is no doubt that it has, at
least to some extent, it follows, as sure as the night follows the day,
that more horses will be required by those who grow the wheat.The land
has to be ploughed and cultivated, the crop drilled, cut, carted home
and delivered to mill, or railway truck, all meaning horse labour.It may happen that large farmers will use motor ploughs or steam
waggons, but these are beyond the reach of the average English farmer.Moreover, when bought they depreciate in value, whether working or
standing idle, which is exactly what the Shire gelding or brood mare
does not do.If properly cared for and used they appreciate in value
from the time they are put to work until they are six or seven years
old, and by that age most farmers have sold their non-breeders to make
room for younger animals.Horse power is therefore the cheapest and
most satisfactory power for most farmers to use in front of field
implements and farm waggons, a fact which is bound to tell in favour of
the Shire in the coming times of peace which we anticipate.When awarding prizes for the best managed farm, the judges appointed by
the Royal Agricultural Society of England are instructed to consider--

“General Management with a view to profit,” so that any breed of live
stock which leaves a profit would help a competitor.Only a short time ago a Warwickshire tenant farmer told his landlord
that Shire horses had enabled himself and many others to attend the
rent audit, “with a smile on his face and the rent in his pocket.”

Most landlords are prepared to welcome a tenant in that state,
therefore they should continue to encourage the industry as they have
done during the past twenty-five years.Wars come to an end--the “Thirty Years’ War” did--so let us remember
the Divine promise to Noah after the flood, “While the earth remaineth
seedtime and harvest … shall not cease,” Gen.As long as there is
sowing and reaping to be done horses--Shire horses--will be wanted.“Far back in the ages
      The plough with wreaths was crowned;
    The hands of kings and sages
      Entwined the chaplet round;
    Till men of spoil disdained the toil
      By which the world was nourished,
    And dews of blood enriched the soil
      Where green their laurels flourished:
    Now the world her fault repairs--
      The guilt that stains her story;
    And weeps; her crimes amid the cares
      That formed her earliest glory.The glory, earned in deadly fray,
      Shall fade, decay and perish.Honour waits, o’er all the Earth
      Through endless generations,
    The art that calls her harvests forth
      And feeds the expectant nations.”




INDEX


    A

    Alston Rose, champion mare 1901 … 104

    Armour-clad warriors, 1, 7

    Army horses, 6

    Ashbourne Foal Show, 80

    Attention to feet, 42

    Aurea, champion mare, 18, 65

    Author’s Preface, v

    Average prices, 76


    B

    Back breeding, value of, 11, 13, 39

    Bakewell, Robert, 2, 22, 54

    Bardon Extraordinary, champion gelding, 65, 78

    Bardon Stud, 118

    Bar None, 80

    Bearwardcote Blaze, 60

    Bedding, 35

    Birdsall Menestrel, 84, 111

    ---- stud, 110

    Black horses, Bakewell’s, 55

    Black horses from Flanders, 58

    Blagdon Stud, 110

    Blending Shire and Clydesdale breeds, 59

    Boiled barley, 36

    Bradley, Mr.John, 83

    Bramhope stud, 111

    Breeders, farmer, 27

    Breeders, prizes for, 65

    Breeding from fillies, 17

    Breeding, time for, 31

    Bury Victor Chief, champion in 1892 … 68, 69

    Buscot Harold, champion stallion, 17, 65


    C

    Calwich Stud, 61, 80

    Canada, 101

    Carbonite, 103

    Care of the feet, 42

    Carlton Stud, 116

    Cart-colts, 23

    Cart-horses, 54

    Castrating colts, 39

    Certificate of Soundness, 62

    Champion’s Goalkeeper, champion in 1913 and 1914 … 67, 104

    Champions bred at Sandringham, 3

    Cheap sires, 12

    Clark, Mr.A. H., 79

    Clydesdales, 58

    Coats of mail, 51

    Coke’s, Hon.E., dispersion sale, 3

    Colonies, 94

    Colour, 38

    Composition of food, 33

    Condition and bloom, 36

    Cost of feeding, 33

    Cost of shipping Shires, 98

    Crisp, Mr.F., 63, 70

    Cross, Mr.J. P., 81

    Crushed oats and bran, 31


    D

    Dack’s Matchless, 82, 116

    Danesfield Stonewall, 114

    Details of shows, 60

    Development grant, 14

    Devonshire, Duke of, 109

    Doubtful breeders, 37

    Draught horses, 23

    Drayman XXIII, 117

    Drew, Lawrence, of Merryton, 59

    Duncombe, Mr.A. C., 69, 80

    Dunsmore Chessie, 81, 105

    ---- Gloaming, 3, 72

    ---- Jameson, 80

    ---- Stud, 80


    E

    Eadie, Mr.James, 65, 78

    Early breeding, 17

    Eaton Hall Stud, 109

    Eaton Nunsuch, 109

    Edgcote Shorthorn Company’s Stud, 108

    Effect of war on cost of feeding, 40

    Egerton of Tatton, Lord, 2, 77

    Ellesmere, Earl of, 2, 7, 70

    Elsenham Cup, 18, 79

    Elsenham Hall Stud, 119

    English cart-horse, 2

    Entries at London shows, 61

    Everard, Mr.B. N., 118

    Ewart, Mr.T., 117

    Exercise, 23, 27

    Export trade, 92, 95


    F

    Facts and figures, 61

    Fattening horses, 26

    Feet, care of, 42

    Fillies, breeding from, 17

    Flemish horses, 1, 53, 57

    Flora, by Lincolnshire Lad, 60

    Foals, time for, 31

    Foals, treatment of, 32

    Foods and feeding, 30

    Formation of Shire Horse Society, 13

    Forshaw, Mr.James, 80, 116

    Foundation stock, 9

    Founding a stud, 8

    Freeman-Mitford, Mr., now Lord Redesdale, 62

    Future outlook, 21


    G

    Gaer Conqueror, 112

    Galbraith, Mr.A., 92

    Geldings at the London Show, 64

    ----, demand for, 15, 24

    ----, production of, 15

    Gilbey, Sir Walter, 2, 14, 51, 54, 119

    Girton Charmer, champion in 1905 … 104

    Glow, famous mare, 16, 119

    Good workers, 23

    Gould, Mr.James, 118

    Grading up, 8

    Grandage, Mr.A., 111

    Green, Mr.E., 112

    Greenwell, Sir Walpole, 105

    Griffin, Mr.F. W., 79


    H

    Halstead Duchess VII., 107

    Halstead Royal Duke, champion in 1909 … 68, 83

    Haltering, 28

    Hamilton, Duke of, importations, 58

    Harold, 60

    Hastings, Battle of, 53

    Hay, 33

    Heath, Mr.R., 85

    Henderson’s, Sir Alexander, successes in 1898 … 64

    Hendre Champion, 99

    Hendre Crown Prince, 70, 99

    Hereditary diseases, 76

    High prices, 69

    Highfield Stud, Leek, 112

    History of the Shire, 51

    Hitchin Conqueror, London champion, 1891, 62

    Honest Tom, 74

    Horse, population and the war, 18, 120

    Horse-power cheapest, 123

    Horses for the army, 6

    Horses at Bannockburn, 52

    How to show a Shire, 48

    Hubbard, Mr.Matthew, 79

    Huntingdon, Earl of, importations, 58


    I

    Importations from Flanders and Holland, 53, 57

    Inherited complaints, 10


    J

    Judges at London Shire Shows, 1890-1915 … 87


    K

    Keene, Mr.R. H., 117

    Keevil, Mr.Clement, 110

    King Edward VII., 3, 73, 86, 102

    King George, 114


    L

    Lady Victoria, Lord Wantage’s prize filly, 17

    Land suitable, 45

    Landlords and Shire breeding, 3, 15

    Leading, 28

    Lessons in showing, 50

    Letting out sires, 14

    Lincolnshire Lad 1196 … 59

    Linseed meal, 36

    Liverpool heavy horses 122

    Llangattock, Lord, 5, 77

    Local horse breeding societies, 15

    Lockinge Cup, 78

    Lockinge Forest King, 81

    Lockington Beauty, 83

    London Show, 61

    Longford Hall sale, 3

    Lorna Doone, 70, 104


    M

    McKenna, Mr.C. E., 118

    Mackereth, Mr.H., 119

    Management, 21, 23

    Manger feeding, 33

    Maple, Sir J. Blundell, 72

    Marden Park Stud, 105

    Mares, management of, 17

    ----, selection of, 8

    Markeaton Royal Harold, 17, 60, 65

    Marmion, 70

    Mating, 20, 22

    Members of Shire Horse Society, 63

    Menestrel, 111

    Michaelis, Mr.Max, 74

    Middleton, Lord, 84, 110

    Minnehaha, champion mare, 64

    Mollington Movement, 106

    Muntz, Mr.F. E., 113

    Muntz, Sir P. Albert, 5, 72, 80


    N

    Nellie Blacklegs, 84

    Nicholson, Sir Arthur, 74, 112

    Norbury Menestrel, 114

    Norbury Park Stud, 114

    Numbers exported, 96


    O

    Oats, 33

    Old English cart-horse, 2, 13, 51

    ---- ---- war horse, 1, 50, 57

    Origin and progress, 51

    Outlook for the breed, 120

    Over fattening, 26


    P

    Pailton Sorais, champion mare, 74, 112

    Pedigrees, 8

    Pendley Stud, 107

    Ploughing, 2, 22, 57

    Popular breed, a, 1

    Potter, Messrs.J. E. and H. W., 115

    Premier, 69, 84

    Preparing fillies for mating, 18

    Primley Stud, 106

    Prince Harold, 77

    Prince William, 69, 78

    Prizes at Shire shows, 63

    Prominent breeders, 103

    ---- Studs, 102

    Prospects of the breed, 121


    R

    Rearing and feeding, 30

    Records, a few, 77

    Redlynch Forest King, 113

    Registered sires, 13

    Rent-paying horses, vi, 11, 124

    Repository sales, 5

    Rickford Coming King, 85

    Rock salt, 35

    Rogers, Mr.A. C., 67

    Rokeby Harold, champion in 1893 and 1895 … 60, 66, 68

    Roman invasion, 51

    Rothschild, Lord, 68, 102, 103

    Rowell, Mr.John, 69, 95

    Russia, 93


    S

    Sales noted, 4, 76

    Salomons, Mr.Leopold, 99

    Sandringham Stud, 3, 73, 86

    Scawby sale, 63

    Select shipment to U.S.A., 102

    Selecting the dams, 9

    Selection of mares, 8

    ---- of sires, 12

    Separating colts and fillies, 39

    Sheds, 35

    Shire Horse Society, 2, 13, 91, 93

    Shire or war horse, 1, 51

    ---- sales, 69, 76

    Shires for war, 6, 121

    ---- as draught horses, 1

    ----, feeding, 30

    ---- feet, care of, 42

    ---- for farm work, 1, 22

    ---- for guns, 6

    ----, formation of society, 13, 93

    ----, judges, 81

    Shires, London Show, 61

    ----, management, 12

    ----, origin and progress of, 51

    ---- pedigrees kept, 8

    ----, prices, 69, 76

    ----, prominent studs, 103

    ----, sales of, 76

    ----, showing, 48

    ----, weight of, 6

    ----, working, 25

    Show condition, 26

    Show, London, 60

    Showing a Shire, 48

    Sires, selection of, 12

    Smith-Carington, Mr.H. H., 73

    Solace, champion mare, 3

    Soils suitable for horse breeding, 45

    Soundness, importance of, 9

    Spark, 69

    Stallions, 12

    Starlight, champion mare 1891 … 62, 78

    Stern, Sir E., 115

    Street, Mr.Frederick, 2

    Stroxton Tom, 116

    Stud Book, 2, 13, 91

    Stud, founding a, 8

    Studs, present day, 103

    ---- sales, 4, 76

    Stuffing show animals, 26, 37

    Suitable foods and system of feeding, 30

    Sutton-Nelthorpe, Mr.R. N., 63, 83

    System of feeding, 30


    T

    Tatton Dray King, 71

    ---- Herald, 71

    Team work, 23

    “The Great Horse,” Sir Walter Gilbey’s book, 14, 51, 54

    Training for show, 48

    ---- for work, 27

    Treatment of foals, 32

    Tring Park Stud, 4, 103

    Two-year-old champion stallions, 67

    Two-year-old fillies, 17


    U

    United States, Shires in the, 3, 92

    Unsoundness, 10


    V

    Value of pedigrees, 8

    ---- of soundness, 10

    Veterinary inspection, 62

    Vulcan, champion in 1891 … 70, 79


    W

    Wantage, Lord, 2, 78

    War demand, 121

    War horse, vi, 51, 91

    War and breeding, 18

    Warton Draughtsman, 118

    Wealthy stud-owners, 14

    Weaning time, 33

    Weight of Armoured Knight, 51

    Weight of Shires, 6

    Welshpool Shire Horse Society, 70

    Westminster, Duke of, 109

    What’s Wanted, 116

    Whinnerah, Messrs.E. and J., 118

    Whitley, Messrs.W. and H., 106

    Williams, Mr.J. G., 107

    Wintering, 40

    ---- foals, 35

    Winterstoke, Lord, 86

    Work of Shire Horse Society, 13, 60

    Working stallions, 25

    World’s war, v, 120

    Worsley Stud, 7


    Y

    Yards, 35

                                THE END

VINTON & COMPANY, LTD., 8, BREAM’S BUILDINGS, CHANCERY LANE, LONDON, E.C.Some of the
conditions of her experience were recreated suddenly, and she
reverted."CHAPTER VI

JIMMIE BECOMES A PARENT


The entrance into the dining-room of the curly headed young man and
his pretty little niece, who had a suite on the eighth floor, as the
room clerk informed all inquirers, was always a matter of interest to
the residents of the Hotel Winchester.They were an extremely
picturesque pair to the eye seeking for romance and color.The child
had the pure, clear cut features of the cameo type of New England
maidenhood.She was always dressed in some striking combination of
blue, deep blue like her eyes, with blue hair ribbons.Her
good-looking young relative, with hair almost as near the color of the
sun as her own, seemed to be entirely devoted to her, which,
considering the charm of the child and the radiant and magnetic spirit
of the young man himself, was a delightfully natural manifestation.But one morning near the close of the second week of their stay, the
usual radiation of resilient youth was conspicuously absent from the
young man's demeanor, and the child's face reflected the gloom that
sat so incongruously on the contour of an optimist.The little girl
fumbled her menu card, but the waitress--the usual aging pedagogic
type of the small residential hotel--stood unnoticed at the young
man's elbow for some minutes before he was sufficiently aroused from
his gloomy meditations to address her.When he turned to her at last,
however, it was with the grin that she had grown to associate with
him,--the grin, the absence of which had kept her waiting behind his
chair with a patience that she was, except in a case where her
affections were involved, entirely incapable of.Jimmie's
protestations of inability to make headway with the ladies were not
entirely sincere."Bring me everything on the menu," he said, with a wave of his hand in
the direction of that painstaking pasteboard."Coffee, tea, fruit,
marmalade, breakfast food, ham and eggs.With another wave of the hand he dismissed her."You can't eat it all, Uncle Jimmie," Eleanor protested."I'll make a bet with you," Jimmie declared."I'll bet you a dollar
to a doughnut that if she brings it all, I'll eat it."Uncle Jimmie, you know she won't bring it.You never bet so I can
get the dollar,--you never do.""I never bet so I can get my doughnut, if it comes to that.""I don't know where to buy any doughnuts," Eleanor said; "besides,
Uncle Jimmie, I don't really consider that I owe them.I never really
say that I'm betting, and you tell me I've lost before I've made up my
mind anything about it.""Speaking of doughnuts," Jimmie said, his face still wearing the look
of dejection under a grin worn awry, "can you cook, Eleanor?Can you
roast a steak, and saute baked beans, and stew sausages, and fry out a
breakfast muffin?he suddenly
demanded of the waitress, who was serving him, with an apologetic eye
on the menu, the invariable toast-coffee-and-three-minute-egg
breakfast that he had eaten every morning since his arrival."She looks like a capable one," she
pronounced."I _can_ cook, Uncle Jimmie," Eleanor giggled, "but not the way you
said.You don't roast steak, or--or--"

"Don't you?"Jimmie asked with the expression of pained surprise that
never failed to make his ward wriggle with delight.There were links
in the educational scheme that Jimmie forged better than any of the
cooperative guardians.Not even Jimmie realized the value of the
giggle as a developing factor in Eleanor's existence.He took three
swallows of coffee and frowned into his cup."I can make coffee," he
added.Well, we may as well look the facts in the face,
Eleanor.We're moving away from this elegant hostelry
to-morrow."Apologies to Aunt Beulah (mustn't call you Kiddo) and the
reason is, that I'm broke.I haven't got any money at all, Eleanor,
and I don't know where I am going to get any."But you go to work every morning, Uncle Jimmie?"I go looking for work, but so far no nice
juicy job has come rolling down into my lap.I haven't told you this
before because,--well--when Aunt Beulah comes down every day to give
you your lessons I wanted it to look all O. K. I thought if you didn't
know, you couldn't forget sometime and tell her.""I don't tattle tale," Eleanor said.It's only my doggone pride that makes me
want to keep up the bluff, but you're a game kid,--you--know.I tried
to get you switched off to one of the others till I could get on my
feet, but--no, they just thought I had stage fright.It would be pretty humiliating to me to admit that I couldn't
support one-sixth of a child that I'd given my solemn oath to
be-parent.""Be-parent, if it isn't a word, I invent it.It's awfully tough luck
for you, and if you want me to I'll own up to the crowd that I can't
swing you, but if you are willing to stick, why, we'll fix up some
kind of a way to cut down expenses and bluff it out."Jimmie watched her apparent
hesitation with some dismay."Say the word," he declared, "and I'll tell 'em."I don't want you to tell 'em," Eleanor cried.If you could get me a place, you know, I could go out to
work.You don't eat very much for a man, and I might get my meals
thrown in--"

"Don't, Eleanor, don't," Jimmie agonized."I've got a scheme for us
all right.The day will
come when I can provide you with Pol Roge and diamonds.My father is
rich, you know, but he swore to me that I couldn't support myself, and
I swore to him that I could, and if I don't do it, I'm damned.I am
really, and that isn't swearing.""I know it isn't, when you mean it the way they say in the Bible.""I don't want the crowd to know.I don't want Gertrude to know.She
hasn't got much idea of me anyway.I'll get another job, if I can only
hold out.""I can go to work in a store," Eleanor cried."I can be one of those
little girls in black dresses that runs between counters.""Do you want to break your poor Uncle James' heart, Eleanor,--do
you?"I've borrowed a studio, a large barnlike studio on
Washington Square, suitably equipped with pots and pans and kettles.Also, I am going to borrow the wherewithal to keep us going.It isn't
a bad kind of place if anybody likes it.There's one dinky little
bedroom for you and a cot bed for me, choked in bagdad.If you could
kind of engineer the cooking end of it, with me to do the dirty work,
of course, I think we could be quite snug and cozy.""I know we could, Uncle Jimmie," Eleanor said."Will Uncle Peter come
to see us just the same?"It thus befell that on the fourteenth day of the third month of her
residence in New York, Eleanor descended into Bohemia.Having no least
suspicion of the real state of affairs--for Jimmie, like most
apparently expansive people who are given to rattling nonsense, was
actually very reticent about his own business--the other members of
the sextette did not hesitate to show their chagrin and disapproval at
the change in his manner of living."The Winchester was an ideal place for Eleanor," Beulah wailed."It's
deadly respectable and middle class, but it was just the kind of
atmosphere for her to accustom herself to.She was learning to manage
herself so prettily.This morning when I went to the studio--I wanted
to get the lessons over early, and take Eleanor to see that exhibition
of Bavarian dolls at Kuhner's--I found her washing up a trail of
dishes in that closet behind the screen--you've seen it,
Gertrude?--like some poor little scullery maid.She said that Jimmie
had made an omelet for breakfast.If he'd made fifty omelets there
couldn't have been a greater assortment of dirty dishes and kettles.""Jimmie made an omelet for me once for which he used two dozen eggs.He kept breaking them until he found the yolks of a color to suit him.He said pale yolks made poor omelets, so he threw all the pale ones
away.""I suppose that you sat by and let him," Beulah said."You would let
Jimmie do anything.You're as bad as Margaret is about David.""Or as bad as you are about Peter.""There we go, just like any silly, brainless girls, whose chief object
in life is the--the other sex," Beulah cried inconsistently."So do I--in theory--" Gertrude answered, a little dreamily."Where do
Jimmie and Eleanor get the rest of their meals?""I can't seem to find out," Beulah said."I asked Eleanor point-blank
this morning what they had to eat last night and where they had it,
and she said, 'That's a secret, Aunt Beulah.'When I asked her why it
was a secret and who it was a secret with, she only looked worried,
and said she guessed she wouldn't talk about it at all because that
was the only way to be safe about tattling.You know what I think--I
think Jimmie is taking her around to the cafes and all the shady
extravagant restaurants.He thinks it's sport and it keeps him from
getting bored with the child.""Well, that's one way of educating the young," Gertrude said, "but I
think you are wrong, Beulah."CHAPTER VII

ONE DESCENT INTO BOHEMIA


"Aunt Beulah does not think that Uncle Jimmie is bringing me up
right," Eleanor confided to the pages of her diary."She comes down
here and is very uncomforterble.Well he is bringing me up good, in
some ways better than she did.When he swears he always puts out his
hand for me to slap him.He can't get any
work or earn wages.The advertisement business is on the bum this year
becase times are so hard up.The advertisers have to save their money
and advertising agents are failing right and left.So poor Uncle
Jimmie can't get a place to work at."The people in the other studios are very neighborly.Uncle Jimmie
leaves a sine on the door when he goes out.They don't they come right in and borrow things.Uncle Jimmie says not
to have much to do with them, becase they are so queer, but when I am
not at home, the ladies come to call on him, and drink Moxie or
something.Uncle Jimmie says I shall
not have Behemiar thrust upon me by him, and to keep away from these
ladies until I grow up and then see if I like them.Aunt Beulah thinks
that Uncle Jimmie takes me around to other studios and I won't tell
but he does not take me anywhere except to walk and have ice-cream
soda, but I say I don't want it because of saving the ten cents.We
cook on an old gas stove that smells.I can't do very good
housekeeping becase things are not convenient.I haven't any oven to
do a Saturday baking in, and Uncle Jimmie won't let me do the washing.I should feel more as if I earned my keap if I baked beans and made
boiled dinners and layer cake, but in New York they don't eat much but
hearty food and saluds.It isn't stylish to have cake and pie and
pudding all at one meal.He eats pie for
his breakfast, but if I told anybody they would laugh.If I wrote
Albertina what folks eat in New York she would laugh."Uncle Jimmie is teaching me to like salud.He laughs when I cut up
lettice and put sugar on it.He teaches me to like olives and dried
up sausages and sour crought.He says it is important to be edjucated
in eating, and everytime we go to the Delicate Essenn store to buy
something that will edjucate me better.He teaches me to say 'I beg
your pardon,' and 'Polly vous Fransay?'and to courtesy and how to
enter a room the way you do in private theatricals.He says it isn't
knowing these things so much as knowing when you do them that counts,
and then Aunt Beulah complains that I am not being brought up."I have not seen Uncle Peter for a weak.I would not have to tell him how I was being brought up, and
whether I was hitting the white lights as Uncle Jimmie says.--He would
know."*       *       *       *       *

Eleanor did not write Albertina during the time when she was living in
the studio.Some curious inversion of pride kept her silent on the
subject of the change in her life.Albertina would have turned up her
nose at the studio, Eleanor knew.Therefore, she would not so much as
address an envelope to that young lady from an interior which she
would have beheld with scorn.She held long conversations with
Gwendolyn, taking the part of Albertina, on the subject of this
snobbishness of attitude.*       *       *       *       *

"Lots of people in New York have to live in little teny, weeny rooms,
Albertina," she would say.This
studio is so big I get tired dusting all the way round it, and even if
it isn't furnished very much, why, think how much furnishing would
cost, and carpets and gold frames for the pictures!The pictures that
are in here already, without any frames, would sell for hundreds of
dollars apiece if the painter could get anybody to buy them.You ought
to be very thankful for such a place, Albertina, instead of feeling so
stuck up that you pick up your skirts from it."*       *       *       *       *

But Albertina's superiority of mind was impregnable.Her spirit sat in
judgment on all the conditions of Eleanor's new environment.She hated the nicked, dun 
dishes they ate from, and the black bottomed pots and pans that all
the energy of Eleanor's energetic little elbow could not restore to
decency again.She hated the cracked, dun  walls, and the
mottled floor that no amount of sweeping and dusting seemed to make an
impression on.She hated the compromise of housekeeping in an
attic,--she who had been bred in an atmosphere of shining
nickle-plated ranges and linoleum, where even the kitchen pump gleamed
brightly under its annual coat of good green paint.She hated the
compromise, that was the burden of her complaint--either in the person
of Albertina or Gwendolyn, whether she lay in the crook of Eleanor's
arm in the lumpy bed where she reposed at the end of the day's labor,
or whether she sat bolt upright on the lumpy cot in the studio, the
broken bisque arm, which Jimmie insisted on her wearing in a sling
whenever he was present, dangling limply at her side in the relaxation
Eleanor preferred for it.The fact of not having adequate opportunity to keep her house in order
troubled the child, for her days were zealously planned by her
enthusiastic guardians.Beulah came at ten o'clock every morning to
give her lessons.As Jimmie's quest for work grew into a more and more
disheartening adventure, she had difficulty in getting him out of bed
in time to prepare and clear away the breakfast for Beulah's arrival.After lunch, to which Jimmie scrupulously came home, she was supposed
to work an hour at her modeling clay.Gertrude, who was doing very
promising work at the art league, came to the studio twice a week to
give her instruction in handling it.Later in the afternoon one of the
aunts or uncles usually appeared with some scheme to divert her.Margaret was telling her the stories of the Shakespeare plays, and
David was trying to make a card player of her, but was not succeeding
as well as if Albertina had not been brought up a hard shell Baptist,
who thought card playing a device of the devil's.Peter alone did not
come, for even when he was in town he was busy in the afternoon.As soon as her guests were gone, Eleanor hurried through such
housewifely tasks as were possible of accomplishment at that hour, but
the strain was telling on her.Jimmie began to realize this and it
added to his own distress.One night to save her the labor of
preparing the meal, he took her to an Italian restaurant in the
neighborhood where the food was honest and palatable, and the service
at least deft and clean.Eleanor enjoyed the experience extremely, until an incident occurred
which robbed her evening of its sweetness and plunged her into the
purgatory of the child who has inadvertently broken one of its own
laws.Among the belongings in the carpetbag, which was no more--having been
supplanted by a smart little suit-case marked with her initials--was a
certificate from the Massachusetts Total Abstinence Society, duly
signed by herself, and witnessed by the grammar-school teacher and the
secretary of the organization.On this certificate (which was
decorated by many presentations in dim black and white of
mid-Victorian domestic life, and surmounted by a collection of
scalloped clouds in which drifted three amateur looking angels amid a
crowd of more professional cherubim) Eleanor had pledged herself to
abstain from the use as a beverage of all intoxicating drinks, and
from the manufacture or traffic in them.She had also subscribed
herself as willing to make direct and persevering efforts to extend
the principles and blessings of total abstinence."Red ink, Andrea," her Uncle Jimmie had demanded, as the black-eyed
waiter bent over him, "and ginger ale for the offspring."It was fun to be with Uncle Jimmie in a restaurant again.He
always called for something new and unexpected when he spoke of her to
the waiter, and he was always what Albertina would consider "very
comical" when he talked to him."But stay," he added holding up an
admonitory finger, "I think we'll give the little one _eau rougie_
this time.Wouldn't you like _eau rougie_, tinted water, Eleanor, the
way the French children drink it?"Unsuspectingly she sipped the mixture of water and ice and sugar, and
"red ink" from the big brown glass bottle that the glowing waiter set
before them.As the meal progressed Jimmie told her that the grated cheese was
sawdust and almost made her believe it.He showed her how to eat
spaghetti without cutting it and pointed out to her various Italian
examples of his object lesson; but she soon realized that in spite of
his efforts to entertain her, he was really very unhappy."I've borrowed all the money I can, Angelface," he confessed finally.If I don't land that job at the
Perkins agency I'll have to give in and tell Peter and David, or wire
Dad.""You could get some other kind of a job," Eleanor said; "plumbing or
clerking or something."On Cape Cod the plumber and the grocer's clerk
lost no caste because of their calling."I _could_ so demean myself, and I will.I'll be a chauffeur, I can
run a car all right; but the fact remains that by to-morrow
something's got to happen, or I've got to own up to the bunch."She tried hard to think of something to comfort
him but she could not.Jimmie mixed her more _eau rougie_ and she
drank it.He poured a full glass, undiluted, for himself, and held it
up to the light."Well, here's to crime, daughter," he said."Long may it wave, and us
with it.""That isn't really red ink, is it?""It's an awfully pretty
color--like grape juice.""It is grape juice, my child, if we don't inquire too closely into the
matter.The Italians are like the French in the guide book, 'fond of
dancing and light wines.'This is one of the light wines they are fond
of.--Hello, do you feel sick, child?As soon as I can get hold of that sacrificed waiter we'll get
out of here."Eleanor's sickness was of the spirit, but at the moment she was
incapable of telling him so, incapable of any sort of speech.A great
wave of faintness encompassed her.She had
lightly encouraged a departure from the blessings and principles of
total abstinence.That night in her bed she made a long and impassioned apology to her
Maker for the sin of intemperance into which she had been so
unwittingly betrayed.She promised Him that she would never drink
anything that came out of a bottle again.She reviewed sorrowfully her
many arguments with Albertina--Albertina in the flesh that is--on the
subject of bottled drinks in general, and decided that again that
virtuous child was right in her condemnation of any drink, however
harmless in appearance or nomenclature, that bore the stigma of a
bottled label.She knew, however, that something more than a prayer for forgiveness
was required of her.She was pledged to protest against the evil that
she had seemingly countenanced.She could not seek the sleep of the
innocent until that reparation was made.Through the crack of her
sagging door she saw the light from Jimmie's reading lamp and knew
that he was still dressed, or clothed at least, with a sufficient
regard for the conventionalities to permit her intrusion.She rose and
rebraided her hair and tied a daytime ribbon on it.Then she put on
her stockings and her blue Japanese kimono--real Japanese, as Aunt
Beulah explained, made for a Japanese lady of quality--and made her
way into the studio.Jimmie was not sitting in the one comfortable studio chair with his
book under the light and his feet on the bamboo tea table as usual.He was flung on the couch with his face
buried in the cushions, and his shoulders were shaking.Eleanor seeing
him thus, forgot her righteous purpose, forgot her pledge to
disseminate the principles and blessings of abstinence, forgot
everything but the pitiful spectacle of her gallant Uncle Jimmie in
grief.She stood looking down at him without quite the courage to
kneel at his side to give him comfort."Uncle Jimmie," she said, "Uncle Jimmie."At the sound of her voice he put out his hand to her, gropingly, but
he did not uncover his face or shift his position.She found herself
smoothing his hair, gingerly at first, but with more and more
conviction as he snuggled his boyish head closer."I'm awfully discouraged," he said in a weak muffled voice."I'm sorry
you caught me at it, Baby."Eleanor put her face down close to his as he turned it to her."Everything will be all right," she promised him, "everything will be
all right.You'll soon get a job--tomorrow maybe."Then she gathered him close in her angular, tense little arms and held
him there tightly."Everything will be all right," she repeated
soothingly; "now you just put your head here, and have your cry out."CHAPTER VIII

THE TEN HUTCHINSONS


"My Aunt Margaret has a great many people living in her family,"
Eleanor wrote to Albertina from her new address on Morningside
Heights."She has a mother and a father, and two (2) grandparents, one
(1) aunt, one (1) brother, one (1) married lady and the boy of the
lady, I think the married lady is a sister but I do not ask any one,
oh--and another brother, who does not live here only on Saturdays and
Sundays.Aunt Margaret makes ten, and they have a man to wait on the
table.I guess you have read about them in
stories.I am taken right in to be one of the family, and I have a
good time every day now.Aunt Margaret's father is a college teacher,
and Aunt Margaret's grandfather looks like the father of his country.They have a piano here that
plays itself like a sewing machine.They have
after-dinner coffee and gold spoons to it.I guess you would like to
see a gold spoon.They are about the size of the tin spoons we
had in our playhouse.I have a lot of fun with that boy too.At first
I thought he was very affected, but that is just the way they teach
him to talk.He is nine and plays tricks on other people.He dares me
to do things that I don't do, like go down-stairs and steal sugar.If
Aunt Margaret's mother was my grandma I might steal sugar or plum
cake.Remember the time we took your mother's hermits?You would think this house was quite a
grand house.It has three (3) flights of stairs and one basement.I
sleep on the top floor in a dressing room out of Aunt Margaret's only
it isn't a dressing room.Aunt
Margaret is pretty and sings lovely.*       *       *       *       *

In her diary she recorded some of the more intimate facts of her new
existence, such facts as she instinctively guarded from Albertina's
calculating sense.*       *       *       *       *

"Everybody makes fun of me here.I don't care if they do, but I can't
eat so much at the table when every one is laughing at me.They get
me to talking and then they laugh.If I could see anything to laugh
at, I would laugh too.They laugh in a refined way but they laugh.They say to
my face that I am like a merry wilkins story and too good to be true,
and New England projuces lots of real art, and I am art, I can't
remember all the things, but I guess they mean well.Aunt Margaret's
grandfather sits at the head of the table, and talks about things I
never heard of before.He knows the govoner and does not like the way
he parts his hair.I thought all govoners did what they wanted to with
their hairs or anything and people had to like it because (I used to
spell because wrong but I spell better now) they was the govoners, but
it seems not at all.I meant to like
Aunt Beulah the best because she has done the most for me but I am
afrayd I don't.I would not cross my heart and say so.Aunt Margaret
gives me the lessons now.I guess I learn most as much as I learned I
mean was taught of Aunt Beulah.Oh dear sometimes I get descouraged
on account of its being such a funny world and so many diferent people
in it.I was afrayd of the hired
butler, but I am not now."*       *       *       *       *

Eleanor had not made a direct change from the Washington Square studio
to the ample house of the Hutchinsons, and it was as well for her that
a change in Jimmie's fortunes had taken her back to the Winchester and
enabled her to accustom herself again to the amenities of gentler
living.Like all sensitive and impressionable children she took on the
color of a new environment very quickly.The strain of her studio
experience had left her a little cowed and unsure of herself, but she
had brightened up like a flower set in the cheerful surroundings of
the Winchester and under the influence of Jimmie's restored spirits.The change had come about on Jimmie's "last day of grace."He had
secured the coveted position at the Perkins agency at a slight advance
over the salary he had received at the old place.He had left Eleanor
in the morning determined to face becomingly the disappointment that
was in store for him, and to accept the bitter necessity of admitting
his failure to his friends.He had come back in the late afternoon
with his fortunes restored, the long weeks of humiliation wiped out,
and his life back again on its old confident and inspired footing.He had burst into the studio with his news before he understood that
Eleanor was not alone, and inadvertently shared the secret with
Gertrude, who had been waiting for him with the kettle alight and some
wonderful cakes from "Henri's" spread out on the tea table.The three
had celebrated by dining together at a festive down-town hotel and
going back to his studio for coffee.At parting they had solemnly and
severally kissed one another.Eleanor lay awake in the dark for a long
time that night softly rubbing the cheek that had been so caressed,
and rejoicing that the drink Uncle Jimmie had called a high-ball and
had pledged their health with so assiduously, had come out of two
glasses instead of a bottle.Her life at the Hutchinsons' was almost like a life on another planet.Margaret was the younger, somewhat delicate daughter of a family of
rather strident academics.Professor Hutchinson was not dependent on
his salary to defray the expenses of his elegant establishment, but
on his father, who had inherited from his father in turn the
substantial fortune on which the family was founded.Margaret was really a child of the fairies, but she was considerably
more fortunate in her choice of a foster family than is usually the
fate of the foundling.The rigorous altitude of intellect in which she
was reared served as a corrective to the oversensitive quality of her
imagination.Eleanor, who in the more leisurely moments of her life was given to
visitations from the poetic muse, was inspired to inscribe some lines
to her on one of the pink pages of the private diary.They ran as
follows, and even Professor Hutchinson, who occupied the chair of
English in that urban community of learning that so curiously bisects
the neighborhood of Harlem, could not have designated Eleanor's
description of his daughter as one that did not describe."Aunt Margaret is fair and kind,
                  And very good and tender."She moves around the room with grace,
                  Her hands she puts with quickness.Although she wears upon her face
                  The shadow of a sickness."It was this "shadow of a sickness," that served to segregate Margaret
to the extent that was really necessary for her well being.To have
shared perpetually in the almost superhuman activities of the family
might have forever dulled that delicate spirit to which Eleanor came
to owe so much in the various stages of her development.Margaret put her arm about the child after the ordeal of the first
dinner at the big table."Father does not bite," she said, "but Grandfather does.If Grandfather shows his teeth, run for your
life.""I don't know where to run to," Eleanor answered seriously, whereupon
Margaret hugged her.Her Aunt Margaret would have been puzzling to
Eleanor beyond any hope of extrication, but for the quick imagination
that unwound her riddles almost as she presented them.For one
terrible minute Eleanor had believed that Hugh Hutchinson senior did
bite, he looked so much like some of the worst of the pictures in
Little Red Riding Hood."While you are here I'm going to pretend you're my very own child,"
Margaret told Eleanor that first evening, "and we'll never, never tell
anybody all the foolish games we play and the things we say to each
other.I can just barely manage to be grown up in the bosom of my
family, and when I am in the company of your esteemed Aunt Beulah, but
up here in my room, Eleanor, I am never grown up.She opened a funny old chest in the
corner of the spacious, high studded chamber."And here are some of
the dolls that I play with."She produced a manikin dressed primly
after the manner of eighteen-thirty, prim parted hair over a small
head festooned with ringlets, a fichu, and mits painted on her
fingers."Beulah," she said with a mischievous flash of a grimace at
Eleanor."Gertrude,"--a dashing young brunette in riding clothes."Jimmie,"--a curly haired dandy."David,"--a serious creature with a
monocle."I couldn't find Peter," she said, "but we'll make him some
day out of cotton and water colors."Eleanor cried in delight, "real dolls with
hair and different  eyes?""I can make pretty good ones," Margaret smiled; "manikins like
these,--a Frenchwoman taught me."And do you play that the dolls talk to each other as if
they was--were the persons?"Margaret assembled the four manikins into a smart little
group.The doll Beulah rose,--on her forefinger."I can't help
feeling," mimicked Margaret in a perfect reproduction of Beulah's
earnest contralto, "that we're wasting our lives,--criminally
dissipating our forces."The doll Gertrude put up both hands."I want to laugh," she cried,
"won't everybody please stop talking till I've had my laugh out."Why, that's just like Aunt Gertrude," Eleanor said."Her voice has
that kind of a sound like a bell, only more ripply.""Don't be high-brow," Jimmie's lazy baritone besought with the slight
burring of the "r's" that Eleanor found so irresistible."I'm only a
poor hard-working, business man.""We intend to devote the
rest of our lives," he said, "to the care of our beloved cooperative
orphan."On that he made a rather over mannered exit, Margaret
planting each foot down deliberately until she flung him back in his
box."That's the kind of a silly your Aunt Margaret is," she
continued, "but you mustn't ever tell anybody, Eleanor."She clasped
the child again in one of her warm, sudden embraces, and Eleanor
squeezing her shyly in return was altogether enraptured with her new
existence."But there isn't any doll for _you_, Aunt Margaret," she cried.yes, there is, but I wasn't going to show her to you unless you
asked, because she's so nice.I saved the prettiest one of all to be
myself, not because I believe I'm so beautiful, but--but only because
I'd like to be, Eleanor.""I always pretend I'm a princess," Eleanor admitted.The Aunt Margaret doll was truly a beautiful creation, a little more
like Marie Antoinette than her namesake, but bearing a not
inconsiderable resemblance to both, as Margaret pointed out,
judicially analyzing her features.Eleanor played with the rabbit doll only at night after this.In the
daytime she looked rather battered and ugly to eyes accustomed to the
delicate finish of creatures like the French manikins, but after she
was tucked away in her cot in the passion flower dressing-room--all of
Margaret's belongings and decorations were a faint, pinky
lavender,--her dear daughter Gwendolyn, who impersonated Albertina at
increasingly rare intervals as time advanced, lay in the hollow of her
arm and received her sacred confidences and ministrations as usual.*       *       *       *       *

"When my two (2) months are up here I think I should be quite sorry,"
she wrote in the diary, "except that I'm going to Uncle Peter next,
and him I would lay me down and dee for, only I never get time enough
to see him, and know if he wants me to, when I live with him I shall
know.Well life is very exciting all the time now.Aunt Margaret
brings me up this way.She tells me that she loves me and that I've
got beautiful eyes and hair and am sweet.She says she wants to love me up enough to last because I never
had love enough before.Albertina never loves any
one, but on Cape Cod nobody loves anybody--not to say so anyway.If a
man is getting married they say he _likes_ that girl he is going to
marry.In New York they act as different as they eat.The Hutchinsons
act different from anybody.They do not know Aunt Margaret has adoptid
me.Nobody knows I am adoptid but me and my aunts and uncles.Miss
Prentis and Aunt Beulah's mother when she came home and all the
bohemiar ladies and all the ten Hutchinsons think I am a little
visiting girl from the country.It is nobody's business because I am
supported out of allowances and salaries, but it makes me feel queer
sometimes.I feel like

                "'Where did you come from, baby dear,
                Out of the nowhere unto the here?'Also I made this up out of home sweet home."'Pleasures and palaces where e'er I may roam,
            Be it ever so humble I wish I had a home.'"I like having six homes, but I wish everybody knew it.Speaking of homes I asked Aunt Margaret why my aunts
and uncles did not marry each other and make it easier for every one.She said they were not going to get married.'Am I the same thing as getting married?'She said no, I
wasn't except that I was a responsibility to keep them unselfish and
real.Aunt Beulah doesn't believe in marriage.Aunt Margaret doesn't think she has the health.Aunt Gertrude has
to have a career of sculpture, Uncle David has got to marry some one
his mother says to or not at all, and does not like to marry anyway.Uncle Jimmie never saw a happy mariage yet and thinks you have a beter
time in single blesedness.Uncle Peter did not sign in the book where
they said they would adopt me and not marry.They did not want to ask
him because he had some trouble once.Well I am
going to be married sometime.I want a house to do the housework in
and a husband and a backyard full of babies.Perhaps I would rather
have a hired butler and gold spoons.Of course I
would like to have time to write poetry.I can sculpture too, but I
don't want a career of it because it's so dirty."*       *       *       *       *

Physically Eleanor throve exceedingly during this phase of her
existence.The nourishing food and regular living, the sympathy
established between herself and Margaret, the regime of physical
exercise prescribed by Beulah which she had been obliged guiltily to
disregard during the strenuous days of her existence in Washington
Square, all contributed to the accentuation of her material
well-being.She played with Margaret's nephew, and ran up and down
stairs on errands for her mother.She listened to the tales related
for her benefit by the old people, and gravely accepted the attentions
of the two formidable young men of the family, who entertained her
with the pianola and excerpts from classic literature and folk lore.*       *       *       *       *

"The We Are Sevens meet every Saturday afternoon," she wrote--on a
yellow page this time--"usually at Aunt Beulah's house.I am examined on what I have learned but I don't mind
it much.Physically I am found to be very good by measure and waite.I am very bright on the subject of
poetry.They do not know whether David Copperfield had been a wise
choice for me, but when I told them the story and talked about it they
said I had took it right.I don't tell them about the love part of
Aunt Margaret's bringing up.Aunt Beulah says it would make me self
conscioush to know that I had such pretty eyes and hair.Aunt Gertrude
said 'why not mention my teeth to me, then,' but no one seemed to
think so.Aunt Beulah says not to develope my poetry because the
theory is to strengthen the weak part of the bridge, and make me do
arithmetic.'Drill on the deficiency,' she says.Well I should think
the love part was a deficiency, but Aunt Beulah thinks love is weak
and beneath her and any one.Uncle David told me privately that he
thought I was having the best that could happen to me right now being
with Aunt Margaret.I didn't tell him that the David doll always gets
put away in the box with the Aunt Margaret doll and nobody else ever,
but I should like to have.*       *       *       *       *

Some weeks later she wrote to chronicle a painful scene in which she
had participated.*       *       *       *       *

"I quarreled with the ten Hutchinsons.They laughed
at me too much for being a little girl and a Cape Codder, but they
could if they wanted to, but when they laughed at Aunt Margaret for
adopting me and the tears came in her eyes I could not bare it.I did
not let the cat out of the bag, but I made it jump out.The
Grandfather asked me when I was going back to Cape Cod, and I said I
hoped never, and then I said I was going to visit Uncle Peter and Aunt
Gertrude and Uncle David next.They said 'Uncle David--do you mean
David Bolling?'and I did, so I said 'yes.'Then all the Hutchinsons
pitched into Aunt Margaret and kept laughing and saying, 'Who is this
mysterious child anyway, and how is it that her guardians intrust her
to a crowd of scatter brain youngsters for so long?'and then they
said 'Uncle David Bolling--_what_ does his mother say?'Then Aunt
Margaret got very red in the face and the tears started to come, and I
said 'I am not a mysterious child, and my Uncle David is as much my
Uncle David as they all are,' and then I said 'My Aunt Margaret has
got a perfect right to have me intrusted to her at any time, and not
to be laughed at for it,' and I went and stood in front of her and
gave her my handkercheve."Well I am glad somebody has been told that I am properly adoptid, but
I am sorry it is the ten Hutchinsons who know."CHAPTER IX

PETER


Uncle Peter treated her as if she were grown up; that was the
wonderful thing about her visit to him,--if there could be one thing
about it more wonderful than another.From the moment when he ushered
her into his friendly, low ceiled drawing-room with its tiers upon
tiers of book shelves, he admitted her on terms of equality to the
miraculous order of existence that it was the privilege of her life to
share.The pink silk coverlet and the elegance of the silver coated
steampipes at Beulah's; the implacable British stuffiness at the
Winchester which had had its own stolid charm for the lineal
descendant of the Pilgrim fathers; the impressively casual atmosphere
over which the "hired butler" presided distributing after-dinner gold
spoons, these impressions all dwindled and diminished and took their
insignificant place in the background of the romance she was living
and breathing in Peter's jewel box of an apartment on Thirtieth
Street.Even to more sophisticated eyes than Eleanor's the place seemed to be
a realized ideal of charm and homeliness.It was one of the older
fashioned duplex apartments designed in a more aristocratic decade for
a more fastidious generation, yet sufficiently adapted to the modern
insistence on technical convenience.Peter owed his home to his
married sister, who had discovered it and leased it and settled it and
suddenly departed for a five years' residence in China with her
husband, who was as she so often described him, "a blooming
Englishman, and an itinerant banker."Peter's domestic affairs were
despatched by a large, motherly Irishwoman, whom Eleanor approved of
on sight and later came to respect and adore without reservation.Peter's home was a home with a place in it for her--a place that it
was perfectly evident was better with her than without her.She even
slept in the bed that Peter's sister's little girl had occupied, and
there were pictures on the walls that had been selected for her.She had been very glad to make her escape from the Hutchinson
household.Her "quarrel" with them had made no difference in their
relation to her.To her surprise they treated her with an increase of
deference after her outburst, and every member of the family,
excepting possibly Hugh Hutchinson senior, was much more carefully
polite to her.Margaret explained that the family really didn't mind
having their daughter a party to the experiment of cooperative
parenthood.It appealed to them as a very interesting try-out of
modern educational theory, and their own theories of the independence
of the individual modified their criticism of Margaret's secrecy in
the matter, which was the only criticism they had to make since
Margaret had an income of her own accruing from the estate of the aunt
for whom she had been named."It is very silly of me to be sensitive about being laughed at,"
Margaret concluded."I've lived all my life surrounded by people
suffering from an acute sense of humor, but I never, never, never
shall get used to being held up to ridicule for things that are not
funny to me.""I shouldn't think you would," Eleanor answered devoutly.In Peter's house there was no one to laugh at her but Peter, and when
Peter laughed she considered it a triumph.It meant that there was
something she said that he liked.The welcome she had received as a
guest in his house and the wonderful evening that succeeded it were
among the epoch making hours in Eleanor's life.The Hutchinson victoria, for Grandmother Hutchinson still clung to the
old-time, stately method of getting about the streets of New York, had
left her at Peter's door at six o'clock of a keen, cool May evening.Margaret had not been well enough to come with her, having been
prostrated by one of the headaches of which she was a frequent
victim.The low door of ivory white, beautifully carved and paneled, with its
mammoth brass knocker, the row of window boxes along the cornice a few
feet above it, the very look of the house was an experience and an
adventure to her.When she rang, the door opened almost instantly
revealing Peter on the threshold with his arms open.He had led her up
two short flights of stairs--ivory white with carved banisters, she
noticed, all as immaculately shining with soap and water as a Cape Cod
interior--to his own gracious drawing-room where Mrs.Finnigan was
bowing and smiling a warmhearted Irish welcome to her.It was like a
wonderful story in a book and her eyes were shining with joy as Uncle
Peter pulled out her chair and she sat down to the first meal in her
honor.The grown up box of candy at her plate, the grave air with
which Peter consulted her tastes and her preferences were all a part
of a beautiful magic that had never quite touched her before.She had been like a little girl in a dream passing dutifully or
delightedly through the required phases of her experience, never quite
believing in its permanence or reality; but her life with Uncle Peter
was going to be real, and her own.That was what she felt the moment
she stepped over his threshold.After their coffee before the open fire--she herself had had "cambric"
coffee--Peter smoked his cigar, while she curled up in silence in the
twin to his big cushioned chair and sampled her chocolates.The blue
flames skimmed the bed of black coals, and finally settled steadily at
work on them nibbling and sputtering until the whole grate was like a
basket full of molten light, glowing and golden as the hot sun when it
sinks into the sea.Except to offer her the ring about his slender Panatela, and to ask
her if she were happy, Peter did not speak until he had deliberately
crushed out the last spark from his stub and thrown it into the fire.The ceremony over, he held out his arms to her and she slipped into
them as if that moment were the one she had been waiting for ever
since the white morning looked into the window of the lavender
dressing-room on Morningside Heights, and found her awake and quite
cold with the excitement of thinking of what the day was to bring
forth."Eleanor," Peter said, when he was sure she was comfortably arranged
with her head on his shoulder, "Eleanor, I want you to feel at home
while you are here, really at home, as if you hadn't any other home,
and you and I belonged to each other.I'm almost too young to be your
father, but--"

"Oh!Eleanor asked fervently, as he paused.

"--But I can come pretty near feeling like a father to you if it's a
father you want.I lost my own father when I was a little older than
you are now, but I had my dear mother and sister left, and so I don't
know what it's like to be all alone in the world, and I can't always
understand exactly how you feel, but you must always remember that I
want to understand and that I will understand if you tell me."Yes, Uncle Peter," she said soberly; then perhaps for the first time
since her babyhood she volunteered a caress that was not purely
maternal in its nature.She put up a shy hand to the cheek so close to
her own and patted it earnestly."Of course I've got my grandfather
and grandmother," she argued, "but they're very old, and not very
affectionate, either.Then I have all these new aunts and uncles
pretending," she was penetrating to the core of the matter, Peter
realized, "that they're just as good as parents.Of course, they're
just as good as they can be and they take so much trouble that it
mortifies me, but it isn't just the same thing, Uncle Peter!""I know," Peter said, "I know, dear, but you must remember we mean
well.""I don't mean you; it isn't you that I think of when I think about my
co--co-woperative parents, and it isn't any of them specially,--it's
just the idea of--of visiting around, and being laughed at, and not
really belonging to anybody.""That was what I hoped you would say, Uncle Peter," she whispered.They had a long talk after this, discussing the past and the future;
the past few months of the experiment from Eleanor's point of view,
and the future in relation to its failures and successes.Beulah was
to begin giving her lessons again and she was to take up music with a
visiting teacher on Peter's piano.(Eleanor had not known it was a
piano at first, as she had never seen a baby grand before.Peter did
not know what a triumph it was when she made herself put the question
to him.)"If my Aunt Beulah could teach me as much as she does and make it as
interesting as Aunt Margaret does, I think I would make her feel very
proud of me," Eleanor said."I get so nervous saving energy the way
Aunt Beulah says for me to that I forget all the lesson.Aunt Margaret
tells too many stories, I guess, but I like them.""Your Aunt Margaret is a child of God," Peter said devoutly, "in spite
of her raw-boned, intellectual family.""Uncle David says she's a daughter of the fairies."When Margaret's a year or two older you won't feel
the need of a mother.""I don't now," said Eleanor; "only a father,--that I want you to be,
the way you promised."Then he continued musingly, "You'll find
Gertrude--different.I can't quite imagine her presiding over your
moral welfare but I think she'll be good at it.She's a good deal of a
person, you know.""Aunt Beulah's a good kind of person, too," Eleanor said; "she tries
hard.The only thing is that she keeps trying to make me express
myself, and I don't know what that means.""Let me see if I can tell you," said Peter."Self-expression is a part
of every man's duty.Inside we are all trying to be good and true and
fine--"

"Except the villains," Eleanor interposed."People like Iago aren't
trying.""Well, we'll make an exception of the villains; we're talking of
people like us, pretty good people with the right instincts.Well
then, if all the time we're trying to be good and true and fine, we
carry about a blank face that reflects nothing of what we are feeling
and thinking, the world is a little worse off, a little duller and
heavier place for what is going on inside of us.""Well, how can we make it better off then?""By not thinking too much about it for one thing, except to remember
to smile, by trying to be just as much at home in it as possible, by
letting the kind of person we are trying to be show through on the
outside."By just not being bashful, do you mean?""Well, when Aunt Beulah makes me do those dancing exercises, standing
up in the middle of the floor and telling me to be a flower and
express myself as a flower, does she just mean not to be bashful?""Something like that: she means stop thinking of yourself and go
ahead--"

"But how can I go ahead with her sitting there watching?""I suppose I ought to tell you to imagine that you had the soul of a
flower, but I haven't the nerve.""You've got nerve enough to do anything," Eleanor assured him, but she
meant it admiringly, and seriously."I haven't the nerve to go on with a moral conversation in which you
are getting the better of me at every turn," Peter laughed."I'm sure
it's unintentional, but you make me feel like a good deal of an ass,
Eleanor.""That means a donkey, doesn't it?""It does, and by jove, I believe that you're glad of it.""I do rather like it," said Eleanor; "of course you don't really feel
like a donkey to me.I mean I don't make you feel like one, but it's
funny just pretending that you mean it.""Beulah tried to convey something of
the fact that you always got the better of every one in your modest
unassuming way, but I never quite believed it before.At any rate it's
bedtime, and here comes Mrs.Kiss me good
night, sweetheart."Eleanor flung her arms about his neck, in her first moment of
abandonment to actual emotional self-expression if Peter had only
known it."I will never really get the better of you in my life, Uncle Peter,"
she promised him passionately.CHAPTER X

THE OMNISCIENT FOCUS


One of the traditional prerogatives of an Omnipotent Power is to look
down at the activities of earth at any given moment and ascertain
simultaneously the occupation of any number of people.Thus the Arch
Creator--that Being of the Supreme Artistic Consciousness--is able to
peer into segregated interiors at His own discretion and watch the
plot thicken and the drama develop.Eleanor, who often visualized this
proceeding, always imagined a huge finger projecting into space,
cautiously tilting the roofs of the Houses of Man to allow the sweep
of the Invisible Glance.Granting the hypothesis of the Divine privilege, and assuming for the
purposes of this narrative the Omniscient focus on the characters most
concerned in it, let us for the time being look over the shoulder of
God and inform ourselves of their various occupations and
preoccupations of a Saturday afternoon in late June during the hour
before dinner.Eleanor, in her little white chamber on Thirtieth Street, was engaged
in making a pink and green toothbrush case for a going-away gift for
her Uncle Peter.To be sure she was going away with him when he
started for the Long Island beach hotel from which he proposed to
return every day to his office in the city, but she felt that a slight
token of her affection would be fitting and proper on the eve of their
joint departure.She was hurrying to get it done that she might steal
softly into the dining-room and put it on his plate undetected.Her
eyes were very wide, her brow intent and serious, and her delicate
lips lightly parted.At that moment she bore a striking resemblance to
the Botticelli head in Beulah's drawing-room that she had so greatly
admired.Of all the people concerned in her history, she was the most
tranquilly occupied.Peter in the room beyond was packing his trunk and his suit-case.At
this precise stage of his proceedings he was trying to make two
decisions, equally difficult, but concerned with widely different
departments of his consciousness.He was gravely considering whether
or not to include among his effects the photograph before him on the
dressing-table--that of the girl to whom he had been engaged from the
time he was a Princeton sophomore until her death four years
later--and also whether or not it would be worth his while to order a
new suit of white flannels so late in the season.The fact that he
finally decided against the photograph and in favor of the white
flannels has nothing to do with the relative importance of the two
matters thus engrossing him.The health of the human mind depends
largely on its ability to assemble its irrelevant and incongruous
problems in dignified yet informal proximity.When he went to his desk
it was with the double intention of addressing a letter to his tailor,
and locking the cherished photograph in a drawer; but, the letter
finished, he still held the picture in his hand and gazed down at it
mutely and when the discreet knock on his door that constituted the
announcing of dinner came, he was still sitting motionless with the
photograph propped up before him.Up-town, Beulah, whose dinner hour came late, was rather more
actively, though possibly not more significantly, occupied.She was
doing her best to evade the wild onslaught of a young man in glasses
who had been wanting to marry her for a considerable period, and had
now broken all bounds in a cumulative attempt to inform her of the
fact.Though he was assuredly in no condition to listen to reason, Beulah
was reasoning with him, kindly and philosophically, paying earnest
attention to the style and structure of her remarks as she did so.Her
emotions, as is usual on such occasions, were decidedly mixed.She was
conscious of a very real dismay at her unresponsiveness, a distress
for the acute pain from which the distraught young man seemed to be
suffering, and the thrill, which had she only known it, is the
unfailing accompaniment to the first eligible proposal of marriage.In
the back of her brain there was also, so strangely is the human mind
constituted, a kind of relief at being able to use mature logic once
more, instead of the dilute form of moral dissertation with which she
tried to adapt herself to Eleanor's understanding."I never intend to marry any one," she was explaining gently."I not
only never intend to, but I am pledged in a way that I consider
irrevocably binding never to marry,"--and that was the text from which
all the rest of her discourse developed.Jimmie, equally bound by the oath of celibacy, but not equally
constrained by it apparently, was at the very moment when Beulah was
so successfully repulsing the familiarity of the high cheek-boned
young man in the black and white striped tie, occupied in encouraging
a familiarity of a like nature.That is, he was holding the hand of a
young woman in the darkened corner of a drawing-room which had been
entirely unfamiliar to him ten days before, and was about to impress a
caress on lips that seemed to be ready to meet his with a certain
degree of accustomed responsiveness.That this was not a peculiarly
significant incident in Jimmie's career might have been difficult to
explain, at least to the feminine portion of the group of friends he
cared most for.Margaret, dressed for an academic dinner party, in white net with a
girdle of pale pink and lavender ribbons, had flung herself face
downward on her bed in reckless disregard of her finery; and because
it was hot and she was homesick for green fields and the cool
stretches of dim wooded country, had transported herself in fancy and
still in her recumbent attitude to the floor of a canoe that was
drifting down-stream between lush banks of meadow grass studded with
marsh lilies.After some interval--and shift of position--the way was
arched overhead with whispering trees, the stars came out one by one,
showing faintly between waving branches; and she perceived dimly that
a figure that was vaguely compounded of David and Peter and the
handsomest of all the young kings of Spain, had quietly taken its
place in the bow and had busied itself with the paddles,--whereupon
she was summoned to dinner, where the ten Hutchinsons and their guests
were awaiting her.David, the only member of the group whose summer vacation had actually
begun, was sitting on the broad veranda of an exclusive country club
several hundreds of miles away from New York and looking soberly into
the eyes of a blue ribbon bull dog, whose heavy jowl rested on his
knees.His mother, in one of the most fashionable versions of the
season's foulards, sleekly corseted and coifed, was sitting less than
a hundred yards away from him, fanning herself with three inches of
hand woven fan and contemplating David.In the dressing-room above,
just alighted from a limousine de luxe, was a raven-haired,
crafty-eyed ingenue (whose presence David did not suspect or he would
have recollected a sudden pressing engagement out of her vicinity),
preening herself for conquest.David's mind, unlike the minds of the
"other gifted members of the We Are Seven Club," to quote Jimmie's
most frequent way of referring to them, was to all intents and
purposes a total blank.He answered monosyllabically his mother's
questions, patted the dog's beetling forehead and thought of nothing
at all for practically forty-five minutes.Then he rose, and offering
his arm to his mother led her gravely to the table reserved for him in
the dining-room.Gertrude, in her studio at the top of the house in Fifty-sixth Street
where she lived with her parents, was putting the finishing touches on
a faun's head; and a little because she had unconsciously used
Jimmie's head for her model, and a little because of her conscious
realization at this moment that the roughly indicated curls over the
brow were like nobody's in the world but Jimmie's, she was thinking of
him seriously.She was thinking also of the dinner on a tray that
would presently be brought up to her, since her mother and father were
out of town, and of her coming two months with Eleanor and her recent
inspiration concerning them.In Colhassett, Cape Cod, Massachusetts, the dinner hour and even the
supper hour were long past.In the commodious kitchen of Eleanor's
former home two old people were sitting in calico valanced rockers,
one by either window.The house was a pleasant old colonial structure,
now badly run down but still marked with that distinction that only
the instincts of aristocracy can bestow upon a decaying habitation.A fattish child made her way up the walk, toeing out unnecessarily,
and let herself in by the back door without knocking.Amos," she said, seating herself in a
straight backed, yellow chair, and swinging her crossed foot
nonchalantly, "I thought I would come in to inquire about Eleanor.Ma
said that she heard that she was coming home to live again.Albertina was not a peculiar favorite of Eleanor's grandfather.Amos
Chase had ideas of his own about the proper bringing up of children,
and the respect due from them to their elders.Also Albertina's father
had come from "poor stock."There was a strain of bad blood in her.The women of the Weston families hadn't always "behaved themselves."He therefore answered this representative of the youngest generation
rather shortly."I don't know nothing about it," he said."Why, father," the querulous old voice of Grandmother Chase protested,
"you know she's comin' home somewhere 'bout the end of July, she and
one of her new aunties and a hired girl they're bringing along to do
the work.I don't see why you can't answer the child's question.""I don't know as I'm obligated to answer any questions that anybody
sees fit to put to me."Albertina, pass me my glasses from off the
mantel-tree-shelf, and that letter sticking out from behind the clock
and I'll read what she says."Albertina, with a reproachful look at Mr.Amos, who retired coughing
exasperatedly behind a paper that he did not read, allowed herself to
be informed through the medium of a letter from Gertrude and a
postscript from Eleanor of the projected invasion of the Chase
household."I should think you'd rather have Eleanor come home by herself than
bringing a strange woman and a hired girl," Albertina contributed a
trifle tartly.The distinction of a hired girl in the family was one
which she had long craved on her own account."All nonsense, I call it," the old man ejaculated."Well, Eleena, she writes that she can't get away without one of 'em
comin' along with her and I guess we can manage someways.I dunno what
work city help will make in this kitchen.You can't expect much from
city help.I shall certainly be
dretful pleased to see Eleena, and so will her grandpa--in spite o'
the way he goes on about it."A snort came from the region of the newspaper."I shouldn't think you'd feel as if you had a grandchild now that six
rich people has adopted her," Albertina suggested helpfully."It's a good thing for the child," her grandmother said."I'm so lame
I couldn't do my duty by her.Old folks is old folks, and they can't
do for others like young ones.I'd d'ruther have had her adopted by
one father and mother instead o' this passel o' young folks passing
her around among themselves, but you can't have what you'd d'ruther
have in this world.You got to take what comes and be thankful.""Did she write you about having gold coffee spoons at her last place?""I think they was probably gilded over like ice-cream
spoons, and she didn't know the difference.I guess she has got a lot
of new clothes.Well, I'll have to be getting along.At the precise moment that the door closed behind Albertina, the clock
in Peter Stuyvesant's apartment in New York struck seven and Eleanor,
in a fresh white dress and blue ribbons, slipped into her chair at the
dinner table and waited with eyes blazing with excitement for Peter to
make the momentous discovery of the gift at his plate.CHAPTER XI

GERTRUDE HAS TROUBLE WITH HER BEHAVIOR


"Dear Uncle Peter," Eleanor wrote from Colhassett when she had been
established there under the new regime for a week or more.I am very awfully sorry, but I could not help it.Don't tell Aunt Margaret because it is so contrary to her teachings
and also the golden rule, but she was more contrary to the golden rule
that I was.She said
Aunt Gertrude was homely and an old maid, and the hired girl was
homely too.Well, I think she is, but I am not going to have Albertina
think so.Aunt Gertrude is pretty with those big eyes and ink like
hair and lovely teeth and one dimple.Albertina likes hair fuzzed all
over faces and blonds.Then she said she guessed I wasn't your
favorite, and that the gold spoons were most likely tin gilded over.I
don't know what you think about slapping.Will you please write and
say what you think?You know I am anxsuch to do well.But I think I
know as much as Albertina about some things.She uster treat me like a
dog, but it is most a year now since I saw her before."Well, here we are, Aunt Gertrude and me, too.Grandpa did not like
her at first.She looked so much like summer folks, and acted that
way, too.He does not agree with summer folks, but she got him talking
about foreign parts and that Spanish girl that made eyes at him, and
nearly got him away from Grandma, and the time they were wrecked going
around the horn, and showing her dishes and carvings from China.Grandma likes her
too, but not when Grandpa tells her about that girl in Spain."We eat in the dining-room, and have lovely food, only Grandpa does
not like it, but we have him a pie now for breakfast,--his own pie
that he can eat from all the time and he feels better.Aunt Gertrude
is happy seeing him eat it for breakfast and claps her hands when he
does it, only he doesn't see her."She is teaching me more manners, and to swim, and some French.It is
vacation and I don't have regular lessons, the way I did while we
were on Long Island."Didn't we have a good time in that hotel?Do you remember the night I
stayed up till ten o'clock and we sat on the beach and talked?I would miss you more if I believed what Albertina said about my
not being your favorite.Uncle Jimmie is coming and then I
don't know what Albertina will say.Aunt Gertrude's idea of getting me cultivated is
to read to me from the great Masters of literature and funny books
too, like Mark Twain and the Nonsense Thology.Then I say what I think
of them, and she just lets me develop along those lines, which is
pretty good for summer."The sun and wind are on the sea,
                  The waves are clear and blue,
                This is the place I like to be,
                  If I could just have you."The insects chirrup in the grass,
                  The birds sing in the tree,
                And oh!how quick the time would pass
                  If you were here with me.""What do you think of slapping, Aunt Gertrude?"Eleanor asked one
evening when they were walking along the hard beach that the receding
tide had left cool and firm for their pathway, and the early moon had
illumined for them."Do you think it's awfully bad to slap any one?""I wouldn't slap you, if that's what you mean, Eleanor.""Would you slap somebody your own size and a little bigger?""I thought perhaps you would," Eleanor sighed with a gasp of relieved
satisfaction."I don't believe in moral suasion entirely, Eleanor," Gertrude tried
to follow Eleanor's leads, until she had in some way satisfied the
child's need for enlightenment on the subject under discussion.It was
not always simple to discover just what Eleanor wanted to know, but
Gertrude had come to believe that there was always some excellent
reason for her wanting to know it."I think there are some quarrels
that have to be settled by physical violence.""I want to bring
myself up good when--when all of my aunts and uncles are too busy, or
don't know.I want to grow up, and be ladylike and a credit, and I'm
getting such good culture that I think I ought to, but--I get worried
about my refinement.City refinement is different from country
refinement.""Refinement isn't a thing that you can worry about," Gertrude began
slowly.She realized perhaps better than any of the others, being a
better balanced, healthier creature than either Beulah or Margaret,
that there were serious defects in the scheme of cooperative
parentage.Eleanor, thanks to the overconscientious digging about her
roots, was acquiring a New England self-consciousness about her
processes.A child, Gertrude felt, should be handed a code ready made
and should be guided by it without question until his maturer
experience led him to modify it.The trouble with trying to explain
this to Eleanor was that she had already had too many things
explained to her, and the doctrine of unselfconsciousness can not be
inculcated by an exploitation of it."If you are naturally a fine
person your instinct will be to do the fine thing.You must follow it
when you feel the instinct and not think about it between times.""That's Uncle Peter's idea," Eleanor said, "that not thinking.Well,
I'll try--but you and Uncle Peter didn't have six different parents
and a Grandpa and Grandma and Albertina all criticizing your
refinement in different ways.Don't you ever have any trouble with
your behavior, Aunt Gertrude?"The truth was that she was having considerable
trouble with her behavior since Jimmie's arrival two days before.She
had thought to spend her two months with Eleanor on Cape Cod helping
the child to relate her new environment to her old, while she had the
benefit of her native air and the freedom of a rural summer.She also
felt that one of their number ought to have a working knowledge of
Eleanor's early surroundings and habits.She had meant to put herself
and her own concerns entirely aside.If she had a thought for any one
but Eleanor she meant it to be for the two old people whose guest she
had constituted herself.She explained all this to Jimmie a day or two
before her departure, and to her surprise he had suggested that he
spend his own two vacation weeks watching the progress of her
experiment.Before she was quite sure of the wisdom of allowing him to
do so she had given him permission to come.Jimmie was part of her
trouble.Her craving for isolation and undiscovered country; her
eagerness to escape with her charge to some spot where she would not
be subjected to any sort of familiar surveillance, were all a part of
an instinct to segregate herself long enough to work out the problem
of Jimmie and decide what to do about it.This she realized as soon as
he arrived on the spot.She realized further that she had made
practically no progress in the matter, for this curly headed young
man, bearing no relation to anything that Gertrude had decided a young
man should be, was rapidly becoming a serious menace to her peace of
mind, and her ideal of a future lived for art alone.She had
definitely begun to realize this on the night when Jimmie, in his
exuberance at securing his new job, had seized her about the waist and
kissed her on the lips.She had thought a good deal about that kiss,
which came dangerously near being her first one.She was too clever,
too cool and aloof, to have had many tentative love-affairs.Later, as
she softened and warmed and gathered grace with the years she was
likely to seem more alluring and approachable to the gregarious male.Now she answered her small interlocutor truthfully."Yes, Eleanor, I do have a whole lot of trouble with my behavior.I'm
having trouble with it today, and this evening," she glanced up at the
moon, which was seemingly throwing out conscious waves of effulgence,
"I expect to have more," she confessed.asked Eleanor, "I'm sorry I can't sit up with you then
and help you.You--you don't expect to be--provocated to _slap_
anybody, do you?""No, I don't, but as things are going I almost wish I did," Gertrude
answered, not realizing that before the evening was over there would
be one person whom she would be ruefully willing to slap several times
over.As they turned into the village street from the beach road they met
Jimmie, who had been having his after-dinner pipe with Grandfather
Amos, with whom he had become a prime favorite.With him was
Albertina, toeing out more than ever and conversing more than
blandly."This virtuous child has been urging me to come after Eleanor and
remind her that it is bedtime," Jimmie said, indicating the pink
gingham clad figure at his side."She argues that Eleanor is some six
months younger than she and ought to be in bed first, and personally
she has got to go in the next fifteen minutes.""It's pretty hot weather to go to bed in," Albertina said."Miss
Sturgis, if I can get my mother to let me stay up half an hour more,
will you let Eleanor stay up?"Just beyond her friend, in the shadow of her ample back, Eleanor was
making gestures intended to convey the fact that sitting up any longer
was abhorrent to her."Eleanor needs her sleep to-night, I think," Gertrude answered,
professionally maternal."I brought Albertina so that our child might go home under convoy,
while you and I were walking on the beach," Jimmie suggested.As the two little girls fell into step, the beginning of their
conversation drifted back to the other two, who stood watching them
for a moment."I thought I'd come over to see if you was willing to say you were
sorry," Albertina began."My face stayed red in one spot for two hours
that day after you slapped me.""I'm not sorry," Eleanor said ungraciously, "but I'll say that I am,
if you've come to make up.""Well, we won't say any more about it then," Albertina conceded."Are
Miss Sturgis and Mr.Sears going together, or are they just friends?""Isn't that Albertina one the limit?"Jimmie inquired, with a piloting
hand under Gertrude's elbow."She told me that she and Eleanor were
mad, but she didn't want to stay mad because there was more going on
over here than there was at her house and she liked to come over.""I'm glad Eleanor slapped her," Gertrude said; "still I'm sorry our
little girl has uncovered the clay feet of her idol.She's through
with Albertina for good.""Do you know, Gertrude," Jimmy said, as they set foot on the
glimmering beach, "you don't seem a bit natural lately.You used to be
so full of the everlasting mischief.Every time you opened your mouth
I dodged for fear of being spiked.Yet here you are just as docile as
other folks.""Don't you like me--as well?"Gertrude tried her best to make her
voice sound as usual."Better," Jimmie swore promptly; then he added a qualifying--"I
guess."But she didn't allow him the opportunity to answer."I'm in a transition period, Jimmie," she said."I meant to be such a
good parent to Eleanor and correct all the evil ways into which she
has fallen as a result of all her other injudicious training, and,
instead of that, I'm doing nothing but think of myself and my own
hankerings and yearnings and such.I thought I could do so much for
the child.""That's the way we all think till we tackle her and then we find it
quite otherwise and even more so.Tell me about your hankerings and
yearnings.""Tell me about your job, Jimmie."And for a little while they found themselves on safe and familiar
ground again.Jimmie's new position was a very satisfactory one.He
found himself associated with men of solidity and discernment, and for
the first time in his business career he felt himself appreciated and
stimulated by that appreciation to do his not inconsiderable best.Gertrude was the one woman--Eleanor had not yet attained the inches
for that classification--to whom he ever talked business."Now, at last, I feel that I've got my feet on the earth, Gertrude; as
if the stuff that was in me had a chance to show itself, and you don't
know what a good feeling that is after you've been marked trash by
your family and thrown into the dust heap.""I know you are, 'Trude.It isn't
everybody I'd talk to like this.The moonlight beat down upon them in floods of sentient palpitating
glory.Little breathy waves sought the shore and whispered to it.The
pines on the breast of the bank stirred softly and tenderly."Lord, what a night," Jimmie said, and began burying her little white
hand in the beach sand."Now
tell me about your job," he said."I don't think I want to talk about my job tonight."There was no question about her voice sounding as
usual this time.Jimmie brushed the sand slowly away from the buried hand and covered
it with his own.He drew nearer, his face close, and closer to hers.It was coming, it was coming and she was
glad.That silly old vow of celibacy, her silly old thoughts about
art.What was anything with the arms of the man you
loved closing about you.Jimmie drew a sharp breath, and let her go."Gertrude," he said, "I'm incorrigible.I'd
make love to--Eleanor's grandmother if I had her down here on a night
like this.Gertrude got to her feet a little unsteadily, but she managed a
smile."It's only the moon," she said, "and--and young blood.I think
Grandfather Amos would probably affect me the same way."Jimmie's momentary expression of blankness passed and Gertrude did not
press her advantage."It's awfully companionable to realize that you also are human,
'Trude," he hazarded on the doorstep.Gertrude put a still hand into his, which is a way of saying "Good
night," that may be more formal than any other."The Colonel's lady, and July O'Grady," she quoted lightly.Up-stairs in her great chamber under the eaves, Eleanor was composing
a poem which she copied carefully on a light blue page of her private
diary.It read as follows:

                "To love, it is the saddest thing,
                  When friendship proves unfit,
                For lots of sadness it will bring,
                  When e'er you think of it.that friends should prove untrue
                  And disappoint you so.Because you don't know what to do,
                  And hardly where to go."CHAPTER XII

MADAM BOLLING


"Is this the child, David?"Eleanor stared impassively into the lenses of Mrs.Eleanor courtesied as her Uncle Jimmie had taught her, but she did not
take her eyes from Mrs.I hate this American fashion of dressing
children like French dolls, in bright colors and smart lines.An English country child would have
cheeks as red as apples."I should have thought her younger, David.I'll teach her the ropes when the strangeness
begins to wear off.This kind of thing is all new to her, you know."Give her the blue chamber and tell Mademoiselle to
take charge of her.You say you want her to have lessons for so many
hours a day.She writes verses, she models pretty well,
Gertrude says.It's too soon to expect any special aptitude to
develop.""Well, I'm glad to discover your philanthropic tendencies, David.I
never knew you had any before, but this seems to me a very doubtful
undertaking.You take a child like this from very plain surroundings
and give her a year or two of life among cultivated and well-to-do
people, just enough for her to acquire a taste for extravagant living
and associations.You get tired of your
bargain.You marry--and then what
becomes of your protegee?She goes back to the country, a thoroughly
unsatisfied little rustic, quite unfitted to be the wife of the farmer
for whom fate intended her.""I wish you wouldn't, mother," David said, with an uneasy glance at
Eleanor's pale face, set in the stoic lines he remembered so well from
the afternoon of his first impression of her.It never hurts anybody to have a plain understanding of his
position in the world.I don't know what foolishness you romantic
young people may have filled her head with.It's just as well she
should hear common sense from me and I intend that she shall.""I've explained to you, mother, that this child is my legal and moral
responsibility and will be partly at least under my care until she
becomes of age.I want her to be treated as you'd treat a child of
mine if I had one.If you don't, I can't have her visit us again.I
shall take her away with me somewhere.Bringing her home to you this
time is only an experiment.""She'll have a much more healthful and normal experience with us than
she's had with any of the rest of your violent young set, I'll be
bound.She can look out for Zaidee--I
never say that name without irritation--but it's the only name the
little beast will answer to.Eleanor started at the suddenness of the question, but did not reply
to it.Bolling waited and David looked at her expectantly."My mother asked you if you liked dogs, Eleanor; didn't you
understand?"Eleanor opened her lips as if to speak and then shut them again
firmly."Your protegee is slightly deaf, David," his mother assured him."You can tell her 'yes,'" Eleanor said unexpectedly to David."I like
dogs, if they ain't treacherous.""She asked you the question," David said gravely; "this is her house,
you know."Why can't I talk to you about her, the way she does about me?""She can have consideration if she wants it, but she
doesn't think I'm any account.Let her ask you what she wants and I'll
tell you.""Eleanor," David remonstrated, "Eleanor, you never behaved like this
before.I don't know what's got into her, mother."Eleanor fixed her big blue eyes on the lorgnette again."If it's manners to talk the way you do to your own children and
strange little girls, why, then I don't want any," she said."I guess
I'll be going," she added abruptly and turned toward the door.David took her by the shoulders and brought her right about face."Say good-by to mother," he said sternly."Good-by, ma'am--madam," Eleanor said and courtesied primly."Tell Mademoiselle to teach her a few things before the next audience,
David, and come back to me in fifteen minutes.I have something
important to talk over with you."David stood by the open door of the blue chamber half an hour later
and watched Eleanor on her knees, repacking her suit-case.Her face
was set in pale determined lines, and she looked older and a little
sick.Outside it was blowing a September gale, and the trees were
waving desperate branches in the wind.David had thought that the
estate on the Hudson would appeal to the little girl.It had always
appealed to him so much, even though his mother's habits of migration
with the others of her flock at the different seasons had left him so
comparatively few associations with it.He had thought she would like
the broad sweeping lawns and the cherubim fountain, the apple orchard
and the kitchen garden, and the funny old bronze dog at the end of the
box hedge.When he saw how she was occupied, he understood that it was
not her intention to stay and explore these things."Eleanor," he said, stepping into the room suddenly, "what are you
doing with your suit-case?Didn't Mademoiselle unpack it for you?"He
was close enough now to see the signs of tears she had shed.Her eyes fell and she tried desperately to control a quivering lip."Because I am--I want to go back.""I ain't wanted," she said, her head low."I made up my mind to go
back to my own folks.I'm not going to be adopted any more."David led her to the deep window-seat and made her sit facing him.He
was too wise to attempt a caress with this issue between them."Do you think that's altogether fair to me?""I guess it won't make much difference to you."Do you think it will be fair to your other aunts and uncles who have
given so much care and thought to your welfare?""If they do get tired of their bargain it will be because they've
turned out to be very poor sports.I've known every one of them a long
time, and I've never known them to show any signs of poor
sportsmanship yet.If you run away without giving them their chance to
make good, it will be you who are the poor sport.""She said you would marry and get tired of me, and I would have to go
back to the country.If you marry and Uncle Jimmie marries--then Uncle
Peter will marry, and--"

"You'd still have your Aunts Beulah and Margaret and Gertrude," David
could not resist making the suggestion.If one person broke up the vow, I guess they
all would."But even if we did, Eleanor, even if we all married, we'd still
regard you as our own, our child, our charge."The tears came now, and David gathered the
little shaking figure to his breast."I don't want to be the wife of
the farmer for whom fate intended me," she sobbed."I want to marry
somebody refined with extravagant living and associations.""That's one of the things we are bringing you up for, my dear."This
aspect of the case occurred to David for the first time, but he
realized its potency."You mustn't take mother too seriously.Just
jolly her along a little and you'll soon get to be famous friends.She's never had any little girls of her own, only my brother and me,
and she doesn't know quite how to talk to them.""The Hutchinsons had a hired butler and gold spoons, and they didn't
think I was the dust beneath their feet.I don't know what to say to
her.I said ain't, and I wasn't refined, and I'll only just be a
disgrace to you.I'd rather go back to Cape Cod, and go out to work,
and stand Albertina and everything.""If you think it's the square thing to do," David said slowly, "you
may go, Eleanor.I'll take you to New York to-morrow and get one of
the girls to take you to Colhassett.Of course, if you do that it will
put me in rather an awkward position.The others have all had you for
two months and made good on the proposition.I shall have to admit
that I couldn't even keep you with me twenty-four hours.Peter and
Jimmie got along all right, but I couldn't handle you at all.As a
cooperative parent, I'm such a failure that the whole experiment goes
to pieces through me.""Well, it's the same thing,--you couldn't stand the surroundings I
brought you to.You couldn't even be polite to my mother for my
sake.""I--never thought of that, Uncle David.""Think of it now for a few minutes, won't you, Eleanor?"The rain was beginning to lash the windows, and to sweep the lawn in
long slant strokes.The little girl held up her face as if it could
beat through the panes on it."I thought," she said slowly, "that after Albertina I wouldn't _take_
anything from anybody.Uncle Peter says that I'm just as good as
anybody, even if I have been out to work.He said that all I had to do
was just to stand up to people.""There are a good many different ways of standing up to people,
Eleanor.Be sure you've got the right way and then go ahead.""I guess I ought to have been politer," Eleanor said slowly."I ought
to have thought that she was your own mother.You couldn't help the
way she acted, o' course.""The way you acted is the point, Eleanor.""I'll act different if you want me to, Uncle David," she said, "and I
won't go and leave you."I don't think that I altogether cover myself
with glory in an interview with my mother," he added."It isn't the
thing that I'm best at, I admit.""You did pretty good," Eleanor consoled him."I guess she makes you
kind of bashful the way she does me," from which David gathered with
an odd sense of shock that Eleanor felt there was something to
criticize in his conduct, if she had permitted herself to look for
it."I know what I'll do," Eleanor decided dreamily with her nose against
the pane."I'll just pretend that she's Mrs.O'Farrel's aunt, and then
whatever she does, I shan't care.I'll know that I'm the strongest and
could hit her if I had a mind to, and then I shan't want to.""By the time you grow up, Eleanor," he said finally, "you will have
developed all your cooperative parents into fine strong characters.*       *       *       *       *

"The dog got nearly drownded today in the founting," Eleanor wrote."It is a very little dog about the size of Gwendolyn.It was out with
Mademoiselle, and so was I, learning French on a garden seat.It
teetered around on the edge of the big wash basin--the founting looks
like a wash basin, and suddenly it fell in.I waded right in and got
it, but it slipped around so I couldn't get it right away.It looked
almost too dead to come to again, but I gave it first aid to the
drownded the way Uncle Jimmie taught me to practicing on Gwendolyn.When I got it fixed I looked up and saw Uncle David's mother coming.I
took the dog and gave it to her.I said, 'Madam, here's your dog.'Mademoiselle ran around ringing her hands and talking about it.Bolling's room, and we talked.I told her how to make
mustard pickles, and how my mother's grandpa's relation came over in
the Mayflower, and about our single white lilac bush, and she's going
to get one and make the pickles.Then I played double Canfield with
her for a while.I'm glad I didn't go home before I knew her better.O'Farrel's aunt I pretend she is her, and we
don't quarrel.She says does Uncle David go much to see Aunt Beulah,
and I say, not so often as Uncle Jimmie does.Then she says does he go
to see Aunt Margaret, and I say that he goes to see Uncle Peter the
most.Well, if he doesn't he almost does.Madam
Bolling that you won't tattle, because she would think the worst."*       *       *       *       *

Eleanor grew to like Mademoiselle.She was the aging, rather wry
faced Frenchwoman who had been David's young brother's governess and
had made herself so useful to Mrs.Bolling that she was kept always on
the place, half companion and half resident housekeeper.She was glad
to have a child in charge again, and Eleanor soon found that her
crooked features and severe high-shouldered back that had somewhat
intimidated her at first, actually belonged to one of the kindest
hearted creatures in the world.Paris and Colhassett bore very little resemblance to each other, the
two discovered.To be sure there were red geraniums every alternating
year in the gardens of the Louvre, and every year in front of the
Sunshine Library in Colhassett.The residents of both places did a
great deal of driving in fine weather.In Colhassett they drove on the
state highway, recently macadamized to the dismay of the taxpayers who
did not own horses or automobiles.In Paris they drove out to the Bois
by way of the Champs Elysees.In Colhassett they had only one
ice-cream saloon, but in Paris they had a good many of them
out-of-doors in the parks and even on the sidewalk, and there you
could buy all kinds of sirups and 'what you call cordials' and
_aperitifs_; but the two places on the whole were quite different.The people of Colhassett were all
religious and thought it was sinful to play cards on Sundays.Mademoiselle said she always felt wicked when she played them on a
week day."I think of my mother," she said; "she would say 'Juliette, what will
you say to the Lord when he knows that you have been playing cards on
a working day."The Lord that they have in Colhassett is not like that," Eleanor
stated without conscious irreverence."She is a vary fonny child, madam," Mademoiselle answered Mrs."She has taste, but no--experience even of the most
ordinary.She cooks, but she does no embroidery.She knits and knows
no games to play.She has a good brain, but Mon Dieu, no one has
taught her to ask questions with it.""She has had lessons this year from some young Rogers graduates, very
intelligent girls.I should think a year of that kind of training
would have had its effect."Bolling's finger went into every pie
in her vicinity with unfailing direction."Lessons, yes, but no teaching.If she were not vary intelligent I
think she would have suffered for it.The public schools they did
somesing, but so little to elevate--to encourage."Thus in a breath were Beulah's efforts as an educator disposed of."Would you like to undertake the teaching of that child for a year?""I think I'll make the offer to David."Bolling was unsympathetic but she was thorough.Since David and his young friends had undertaken
a venture so absurd, she decided to lend them a helping hand with it.Besides, now that she had no children of her own in the house,
Mademoiselle was practically eating her head off.Also it had
developed that David was fond of the child, so fond of her that to
oppose that affection would have been bad policy, and Mrs.Bolling was
politic when she chose to be.She chose to be politic now, for
sometime during the season she was going to ask a very great favor of
David, and she hoped, that by first being extraordinarily complaisant
and kind and then by bringing considerable pressure to bear upon him,
he would finally do what he was asked.The favor was to provide
himself with a father-in-law, and that father-in-law the
multi-millionaire parent of the raven-haired, crafty-eyed ingenue, who
had begun angling for him that June night at the country club.She made the suggestion to David on the eve of the arrival of all of
Eleanor's guardians for the week-end.Bolling had invited a
house-party comprised of the associated parents as a part of her
policy of kindness before the actual summoning of her forces for the
campaign she was about to inaugurate.David was really touched by his mother's generosity concerning
Eleanor.He had been agreeably surprised at the development of the
situation between the child and his mother.He had been obliged to go
into town the day after Eleanor's first unfortunate encounter with her
hostess, and had hurried home in fear and trembling to try to smooth
out any tangles in the skein of their relationship that might have
resulted from a day in each other's vicinity.After hurrying over the
house and through the grounds in search of her he finally discovered
the child companionably currying a damp and afflicted Pekinese in his
mother's sitting-room, and engaged in a grave discussion of the
relative merits of molasses and sugar as a sweetening for Boston baked
beans.It was while they were having their after-dinner coffee in the
library, for which Eleanor had been allowed to come down, though
nursery supper was the order of the day in the Bolling establishment,
that David told his friends of his mother's offer."Of course, we decided to send her to school when she was twelve
anyway," he said."The idea was to keep her among ourselves for two
years to establish the parental tie, or ties I should say.If she is
quartered here with Mademoiselle we could still keep in touch with her
and she would be having the advantage of a year's steady tuition under
one person, and we'd be relieved--" a warning glance from Margaret,
with an almost imperceptible inclination of her head in the direction
of Beulah, caused him to modify the end of his sentence--"of the
responsibility--for her physical welfare.""Mentally and morally," Gertrude cut in, "the bunch would still
supervise her entirely."Jimmie, who was sitting beside her, ran his arm along the back of her
chair affectionately, and then thought better of it and drew it away.He was, for some unaccountable reason, feeling awkward and not like
himself.There was a girl in New York, with whom he was not in the
least in love, who had recently taken it upon herself to demonstrate
unmistakably that she was not in love with him.There was another girl
who insisted on his writing her every day.Here was Gertrude, who
never had any time for him any more, absolutely without enthusiasm at
his proximity.He thought it would be a good idea to allow Eleanor to
remain where she was and said so."Not that I won't miss the jolly times we had together, Babe," he
said."I was planning some real rackets this year,--to make up for
what I put you through," he added in her ear, as she came and stood
beside him for a minute.Gertrude wanted to go abroad for a year, "and lick her wounds," as she
told herself.She would have come back for her two months with
Eleanor, but she was glad to be relieved of that necessity.Margaret
had the secret feeling that the ordeal of the Hutchinsons was one that
she would like to spare her foster child, and incidentally herself in
relation to the adjustment of conditions necessary to Eleanor's visit.Peter wanted her with him, but he believed the new arrangement would
be better for the child.Beulah alone held out for her rights and her
parental privileges.She stood in the center of the group a little forlornly while they
awaited her word.A wave of her old shyness overtook her and she
blushed hot and crimson."It's all in your own hands, dear," Beulah said briskly."Poor kiddie," Gertrude thought, "it's all wrong somehow.""I don't know what you want me to say," Eleanor said piteously and
sped to the haven of Peter's breast."We'll manage a month together anyway," Peter whispered."Then I guess I'll stay here," she whispered back, "because next I
would have to go to Aunt Beulah's."Peter, turning involuntarily in Beulah's direction, saw the look of
chagrin and disappointment on her face, and realized how much she
minded playing a losing part in the game and yet how well she was
doing it."She's only a straight-laced kid after all," he thought."She's put her whole heart and soul into this thing.There's a look
about the top part of her face when it's softened that's a little like
Ellen's."Ellen was his dead fiancee--the girl in the photograph at
home in his desk."I guess I'll stay here," Eleanor said aloud, "all in one place, and
study with Mademoiselle."It was a decision that, on the whole, she never regretted.CHAPTER XIII

BROOK AND RIVER


                   "Standing with reluctant feet,
                   Where the brook and river meet.""I think it's a good plan to put a quotation like Kipling at the top
of the page whenever I write anything in this diary," Eleanor began in
the smart leather bound book with her initials stamped in black on the
red cover--the new private diary that had been Peter's gift to her on
the occasion of her fifteenth birthday some months before."I think it
is a very expressive thing to do.The quotation above is one that
expresses me, and I think it is beautiful too.Miss Hadley--that's my
English teacher--the girls call her Haddock because she does look
rather like a fish--says that it's undoubtedly one of the most
poignant descriptions of adolescent womanhood ever made.I made a note
to look up adolescent, but didn't.Bertha Stephens has my dictionary,
and won't bring it back because the leaves are all stuck together
with fudge, and she thinks she ought to buy me a new one.It is very
honorable of her to feel that way, but she never will.Good old
Stevie, she's a great borrower."'Neither a borrower nor a lender be,
             For borrowing dulls the edge of husbandry.'"Well, I hardly know where to begin.I thought I would make a resume
of some of the events of the last year.I was only fourteen then, but
still I did a great many things that might be of interest to me in my
declining years when I look back into the annals of this book.To
begin with I was only a freshie at Harmon.It is very different to be
a sophomore.I can hardly believe that I was once a shivering looking
little thing like all the freshmen that came in this year.I was very
frightened, but did not think I showed it.wad some power the giftie gie us,
               To see ourselves as others see us.'"Robert Burns had twins and a rather bad character, but after he met
his bonnie Jean he wrote very beautiful poetry.A poet's life is
usually sad anyhow--full of disappointment and pain--but I digress."I had two years with Mademoiselle at the Bollings' instead of one the
way we planned.I haven't written in my Private Diary since the night
of that momentous decision that I was to stay in one place instead of
taking turns visiting my cooperative parents.I went to another school
one year before I came to Harmon, and that brings me to the threshold
of my fourteenth year.If I try to go back any farther, I'll never
catch up.I spent that vacation with Aunt Margaret in a cottage on
Long Island with her sister, and her sister's boy, who has grown up to
be the silly kind that wants to kiss you and pull your hair, and those
things.Aunt Margaret is so lovely I can't think of words to express
it.rare pale Margaret,' as Tennyson says.She wears her hair in
a coronet braid around the top of her head, and all her clothes are
the color of violets or a soft dovey gray or white, though baby blue
looks nice on her especially when she wears a fishyou."I went down to Cape Cod for a week before I came to Harmon, and while
I was there my grandmother died.I can't write about that in this
diary.I loved my grandmother and my grandmother loved me.Uncle Peter
came, and took charge of everything.He has great strength that holds
you up in trouble."The first day I came to Harmon I saw the girl I wanted for my best
friend, and so we roomed together, and have done so ever since.Her
name is Margaret Louise Hodges, but she is called Maggie Lou by every
one.She has dark curly hair, and deep brown eyes, and a very silvery
voice.I have found out that she lies some, but she says it is because
she had such an unhappy childhood, and has promised to overcome it for
my sake."That Christmas vacation the 'We Are Sevens' went up the Hudson to the
Bollings' again, but that was the last time they ever went there.Uncle David and his mother had a terrible fight over them.I was sorry
for Madam Bolling in a way.There was a girl she wanted Uncle David to
marry, a rich girl who looked something like Cleopatra, very dark
complexioned with burning eyes.She had a sweet little Pekinese
something like Zaidee."Uncle David said that gold could never buy him, and to take her away,
but Madam Bolling was very angry, of course.She accused him of
wanting to marry Aunt Margaret, and called her a characterless, faded
blonde.Then it was Uncle David's turn to get angry, and I have never
seen any one get any angrier, and he told about the vow of celibacy,
and how instead of having designs on him the whole crowd would back
him up in his struggle to stay single.I told
Madam Bolling that I would help her to get Uncle David back, and I
did, but she never forgave the other aunts and uncles.I suppose the
feelings of a mother would prompt her to want Uncle David settled down
with a rich and fashionable girl who would soon be the mother of a lot
of lovely children.I can't imagine a Cleopatra looking baby, but she
might have boys that looked like Uncle David."Vacations are really about all there is to school.Freshman year is
mostly grinding and stuffing.Having six parents to send you boxes of
'grub' is better than having only two.Some of the girls are rather
selfish about the eats, and come in and help themselves boldly when
you are out of the room.Maggie Lou puts up signs over the candy box:
'Closed for Repairs,' or 'No Trespassing by Order of the Board of
Health,' but they don't pay much attention.Well, last summer vacation
I spent with Uncle Jimmie.I wouldn't tell this, but I reformed him.I don't know what pledge it was because I
didn't read it, but he said he was addicted to something worse than
anything I could think of, and if somebody didn't pull him up, he
wouldn't answer for the consequences.I asked him why he didn't choose
Aunt Gertrude to do it, and he groaned only.So I said to write out a
pledge, and sign it and I would be the witness.We were at a hotel
with his brother's family.It isn't proper any more for me to go
around with my uncles unless I have a chaperon.Mademoiselle says that
I oughtn't even to go down-town alone with them but, of course, that
is French etiquette, and not American.Well, there were lots of pretty
girls at this hotel, all wearing white and pink dresses, and carrying
big bell shaped parasols of bright colors.They looked sweet, like so
many flowers, but Uncle Jimmie just about hated the sight of them.He
said they were not girls at all, but just pink and white devices of
the devil.On the whole he didn't act much like my merry uncle, but we
had good times together playing tennis and golf, and going on parties
with his brother's family, all mere children but the mother and
father.Uncle Jimmie was afraid to go and get his mail all summer,
although he had a great many letters on blue and lavender note paper
scented with Roger et Gallet's violet, and Hudnut's carnation.We used
to go down to the beach and make bonfires and burn them unread, and
then toast marshmallows in their ashes.He said that they were
communications from the spirits of the dead.I should have thought
that they were from different girls, but he seemed to hate the sight
of girls so much.Once I asked him if he had ever had an unhappy
love-affair, just to see what he would say, but he replied 'no, they
had all been happy ones,' and groaned and groaned."Aunt Beulah has changed too.She has become a suffragette and thinks
only of getting women their rights and their privileges."Maggie Lou is an anti, and we have long arguments about the cause.She says that woman's place is in the home, but I say look at me, who
have no home, how can I wash and bake and brew like the women of my
grandfather's day, visiting around the way I do?And she says that it
is the principle of the thing that is involved, and I ought to take a
stand for or against.Everybody has so many different arguments that I
don't know what I think yet, but some day I shall make up my mind for
good."Well, that about brings me up to the present.I meant to describe a
few things in detail, but I guess I will not begin on the past in that
way.I don't get so awfully much time to write in this diary because
of the many interruptions of school life, and the way the monitors
snoop in study hours.I don't know who I am going to spend my
Christmas holidays with.I sent Uncle Peter a poem three days ago, but
he has not answered it yet.I'm afraid he thought it was very silly.I
don't hardly know what it means myself.It goes as follows:

                              "A Song

                "The moon is very pale to-night,
                  The summer wind swings high,
                I seek the temple of delight,
                  And feel my love draw nigh."I seem to feel his fragrant breath
                  Upon my glowing cheek.Between us blows the wind of death,--
                  I shall not hear him speak."I don't know why I like to write love poems, but most of the women
poets did.CHAPTER XIV

MERRY CHRISTMAS


Margaret in mauve velvet and violets, and Gertrude in a frock of smart
black and white were in the act of meeting by appointment at Sherry's
one December afternoon, with a comfortable cup of tea in mind.Gertrude emerged from the recess of the revolving door and Margaret,
sitting eagerly by the entrance, almost upset the attendant in her
rush to her friend's side.Gertrude," she cried, "I'm so glad to see you.My family is
trying to cut me up in neat little quarters and send me north, south,
east and west, for the Christmas holidays, and I want to stay home and
have Eleanor.How did I ever come to be born into a family of giants,
tell me that, Gertrude?""The choice of parents is thrust upon us at an unfortunately immature
period, I'll admit," Gertrude laughed."My parents are dears, but
they've never forgiven me for being an artist instead of a dubby bud.Shall we have tea right away or shall we sit down and discuss life?""I don't know which is the hungrier--flesh or
spirit."But as they turned toward the dining-room a familiar figure blocked
their progress."I thought that was Gertrude's insatiable hat," David exclaimed
delightedly."I've phoned for you both until your families have given
instructions that I'm not to be indulged any more.I've got a surprise
for you.--Taxi," he said to the man at the door."Not till we've had our tea," Margaret wailed."You couldn't be so
cruel, David.""You shall have your tea, my dear, and one of the happiest surprises
of your life into the bargain," David assured her as he led the way to
the waiting cab."I wouldn't leave this place unfed for anybody but you, David, not if
it were ever so, and then some, as Jimmie says.""What's the matter with Jimmie, anyhow?"David inquired as the taxi
turned down the Avenue and immediately entangled itself in a hopeless
mesh of traffic.Gertrude answered, though she had not been the
one addressed at the moment.she
rattled on without waiting for an answer."I thought it was
good-looking myself, and Madam Paran robbed me for it.""It is good-looking," David allowed."It seems to be a kind of
retrieving hat, that's all.Keeps you in a rather constant state of
looking after the game."It's a lovely cross
between the style affected by the late Emperor Napoleon and my august
grandmother, with some frills added."The chauffeur turned into a cross street and stopped abruptly before
an imposing but apparently unguarded entrance."Why, I thought this was a studio building," Gertrude said."David, if
you're springing a tea party on us, and we in the wild ungovernable
state we are at present, I'll shoot the way my hat is pointing.""Straight through my left eye-glass," David finished."You wait till
you see the injustice you have done me."But Margaret, who often understood what was happening a few moments
before the revelation of it, clutched at his elbow.David, David," she whispered, "how wonderful!""Wait till you see," David said, and herded them into the elevator.David hurried them around
the bend in the sleekly carpeted corridor and touched the bell on the
right of the first door they came to.It opened almost instantly and
David's man, who was French, stood bowing and smiling on the
threshold.Styvvisont has arrive'," he said; "he waits you.""Welcome to our city," Peter cried, appearing in the doorway of the
room Alphonse was indicating with that high gesture of delight with
which only a Frenchman can lead the way."Jimmie's coming up from the
office and Beulah's due any minute.What do you think of the place,
girls?""It's really
ours, that's what it is.I've broken away from the mater at last," he
added a little sheepishly.I've got an
all-day desk job in my uncle's office and I'm going to dig in and see
what I can make of myself.Also, this is going to be our headquarters,
and Eleanor's permanent home if we're all agreed upon it,--but look
around, ladies.If you think I can interior
decorate, just tell me so frankly."It's like that old conundrum--black and white and red all over,"
Gertrude said."I never saw anything so stunning in all my life."I admire your nerve," Peter cried, "papering this place in
white, and then getting in all this heavy carved black stuff, and the
red in the tapestries and screens and pillows.""I wanted it to look studioish a little," David explained, "I wanted
to get away from Louis Quartorze.""And drawing-rooms like mother used to make," Gertrude suggested.Do you see, Margaret, everything is Indian
or Chinese?The ubiquitous Japanese print is conspicuous by its
absence.""I've got two portfolios full of 'em," David said, "and I always have
one or two up in the bedrooms.I change 'em around, you know, the way
the <DW61>s do themselves, a different scene every few days and the rest
decently out of sight till you're ready for 'em.""It's like a fairy story," Margaret said."I thought you'd appreciate what little Arabian Nights I was able to
introduce.I bought that screen," he indicated a sweep of Chinese line
and color, "with my eye on you, and that Aladdin's lamp is yours, of
course.You're to come in here and rub it whenever you like, and your
heart's desire will instantly be vouchsafed to you."Peter suggested, as David led the way through
the corridor and up the tiny stairs which led to the more intricate
part of the establishment."This is her room, didn't you say, David?"He paused on the threshold of a bedroom done in ivory white and
yellow, with all its hangings of a soft golden silk."She once said that she wanted a yellow room," David said, "a
daffy-down-dilly room, and I've tried to get her one.I know last
year that Maggie Lou child refused to have yellow curtains in that
flatiron shaped sitting-room of theirs, and Eleanor refused to be
comforted."A wild whoop in the below stairs announced Jimmie; and Beulah arrived
simultaneously with the tea tray.Jimmie was ecstatic when the actual
function of the place was explained to him."Headquarters is the one thing we've lacked," he said; "a place of our
own, hully gee!"You haven't been feeling altogether human lately, have you, Jimmie?""I'm a bad
egg," he explained to her darkly, "and the only thing you can do with
me is to scramble me.""Scrambled is just about the way I should have described your behavior
of late,--but that's Gertrude's line," David said."Only she doesn't
seem to be taking an active part in the conversation.Aren't you
Jimmie's keeper any more, Gertrude?""Not since she's come back from abroad," Jimmie muttered without
looking at her."Eleanor's taken the job over now," Peter said."She's made him swear
off red ink and red neckties.""Any color so long's it's red is the color that suits me best," Jimmie
quoted."Lord, isn't this room a pippin?"He swam in among the bright
pillows of the divan and so hid his face for a moment.It had been a
good many weeks since he had seen Gertrude."I want to give a suffrage tea here," Beulah broke in suddenly."It's
so central, but I don't suppose David would hear of it.""Angels and Ministers of Grace defend us--" Peter began."My _mother_ would hear of it," David said, "and then there wouldn't
be any little studio any more.She doesn't believe in votes for
women.""How any woman in this day and age--" Beulah began, and thought better
of it, since she was discussing Mrs."Makes your blood boil, doesn't it--Beulahland?"Gertrude suggested
helpfully, reaching for the tea cakes."Never mind, I'll vote for
women."The Lord helps those that help themselves," Peter said, "that's why
Gertrude is a suffragist.She believes in helping herself, in every
sense, don't you, 'Trude?""Not quite in every sense," Gertrude said gravely."Sometimes I feel
like that girl that Margaret describes as caught in a horrid way
between two generations."I'd rather be that way than early Victorian," Margaret sighed."Speaking of the latest generation, has anybody any objection to
having our child here for the holidays?""My idea is to
have one grand Christmas dinner.I suppose we'll all have to eat one
meal with our respective families, but can't we manage to get together
here for dinner at night?"We can't, but we will," Margaret murmured.I wanted her with me but the family thought otherwise.They've
been trying to send me away for my health, David."You'll stay in New York for your health and come
to my party.""Margaret's health is merely a matter of Margaret's happiness anyhow.Her soul and her body are all one," Gertrude said."Then cursed be he who brings anything but happiness to Margaret,"
Peter said, to which sentiment David added a solemn "Amen.""I wish you wouldn't," Margaret said, shivering a little, "I feel as
if some one were--were--"

"Trampling the violets on your grave," Gertrude finished for her.Christmas that year fell on a Monday, and Eleanor did not leave school
till the Friday before the great day.Owing to the exigencies of the
holiday season none of her guardians came to see her before the dinner
party itself.Even David was busy with his mother--installed now for a
few weeks in the hotel suite that would be her home until the opening
of the season at Palm Beach--and had only a few hurried words with
her.Mademoiselle, whom he had imported for the occasion, met her at
the station and helped her to do her modest shopping which consisted
chiefly of gifts for her beloved aunts and uncles.She had arranged
these things lovingly at their plates, and fled to dress when they
began to assemble for the celebration.The girls were the first
arrivals."I had a few minutes' talk
with her over the telephone and she seemed to be flourishing.""She's grown several feet since we last saw
her.They've been giving scenes from Shakespeare at school and she's
been playing Juliet, it appears.She has had a fight with another girl
about suffrage--I don't know which side she was on, Beulah, I am
merely giving you the facts as they came to me--and the other girl was
so unpleasant about it that she has been visited by just retribution
in the form of the mumps, and had to be sent home and quarantined.""Sounds a bit priggish," Peter suggested."Not really," David said, "she's as sound as a nut.She's only going
through the different stages.""To pass deliberately through one's ages," Beulah quoted, "is to get
the heart out of a liberal education.""Bravo, Beulah," Gertrude cried, "you're quite in your old form
to-night.""Is she just the same little girl, David?"I don't know why
she doesn't come down.No, it's only Alphonse
letting in Jimmie."Jimmie, whose spirits seemed to have revived under the holiday
influence, was staggering under the weight of his parcels.The
Christmas presents had already accumulated to a considerable mound on
the couch.Margaret was brooding over them and trying not to look
greedy.She was still very much of a child herself in relation to
Santa Claus.My eyes--but you're a slick trio, girls.Pale
lavender, pale blue, and pale pink, and all quite sophisticatedly
decollete.I don't know quite why
you do, but you do.""Give honor where honor is due, dearie.That's owing to the cleverness
of the decorator," David said."No man calls me dearie and lives to tell the tale," Jimmie remarked
almost dreamily as he squared off.But at that instant there was an unexpected interruption.Alphonse
threw open the big entrance door at the farther end of the long room
with a flourish."Mademoiselle Juliet Capulet," he proclaimed with the grand air, and
then retired behind his hand, smiling broadly.Framed in the high doorway, complete, cap and curls, softly rounding
bodice, and the long, straight lines of the Renaissance, stood
Juliet--Juliet, immemorial, immortal, young--austerely innocent and
delicately shy, already beautiful, and yet potential of all the beauty
and the wisdom of the world."I've never worn these clothes before anybody but the girls before,"
Eleanor said, "but I thought"--she looked about her appealingly--"you
might like it--for a surprise.""Great jumping Jehoshaphat," Jimmie exclaimed, "I thought you said she
was the same little girl, David.""She was half an hour ago," David answered, "I never saw such a
metamorphosis.In fact, I don't think I ever saw Juliet before.""She is the thing itself," Gertrude answered, the artist in her
sobered by the vision.But Peter passed a dazed hand over his eyes and stared at the delicate
figure advancing to him.she's a woman," he said, and drew the hard breath of a man
just awakened from sleep.[Illustration: "I thought"--she looked about her appealingly--"you might
like it--for a surprise"]




CHAPTER XV

GROWING UP


"Dear Uncle Jimmie:

"It was a pleasant surprise to get letters from every one of my uncles
the first week I got back to school.You wrote
me two letters last year, Uncle David six, and Uncle Peter sixteen.He
is the best correspondent, but perhaps that is because I ask him the
most advice.I shall never forget the
expressions on all the different faces when I came down in my Juliet
suit.I thought at first that no one liked me in it, but I guess they
did."You know how well I liked my presents because you heard my wild
exclamations of delight.It was
sweet of the We Are Sevens to get me that ivory set, and to know that
every different piece was the loving thought of a different aunt or
uncle.It looks entirely unique, and I
like to have things that are not like anybody else's in the world,
don't you, Uncle Jimmie?They are
'neat,' but not 'gaudy.'You play golf so well I thought a golf stick
was a nice emblem for you, and would remind you of me and last
summer."I am glad you think it is easier to keep your pledge now.I made a
New Year's resolution to go without chocolates, and give the money
they would cost to some good cause, but it's hard to pick out a cause,
or to decide exactly how much money you are saving.I can eat the
chocolates that are sent to me, however!!!!"Uncle David said that he thought you were not like yourself lately,
but you seemed just the same to me Christmas, only more affectionate.I was really only joking about the chocolates.*       *       *       *       *

"Dear Uncle David:

"I was glad to get your nice letter.You did not have to write in
response to my bread and butter letter, but I am glad you did.When I
am at school, and getting letters all the time I feel as if I were
living two beautiful lives all at once, the life of a 'cooperative
child' and the life of Eleanor Hamlin, schoolgirl, both together.Letters make the people you love seem very near to you, don't you
think they do?I sleep with all my letters under my pillow whenever I
feel the least little bit homesick, and they almost seem to breathe
sometimes.Maggie Lou had a wrist watch, too, for
Christmas, but not so pretty as the one you gave me.Miss Hadley says
I do remarkable work in English whenever I feel like it.I don't know
whether that's a compliment or not.I took Kris Kringle for the
subject of a theme the other day, and represented him as caught in an
iceberg in the grim north, and not being able to reach all the poor
little children in the tenements and hovels.The Haddock said it
showed imagination."There was a lecture at school on Emerson the other day.The speaker
was a noted literary lecturer from New York.He had wonderful waving
hair, more like Pader--I can't spell him, but you know who I
mean--than Uncle Jimmie's, but a little like both.He introduced some
very noble thoughts in his discourse, putting perfectly old ideas in
a new way that made you think a lot more of them.I think a tall man
like that with waving hair can do a great deal of good as a lecturer,
because you listen a good deal more respectfully than if they were
plain looking.His voice sounded a good deal like what I imagine
Romeo's voice did.I had a nice letter from Madam Bolling.I love you,
and I have come to the bottom of the sheet.*       *       *       *       *

"Dear Uncle Peter:

"I have just written to my other uncles, so I won't write you a long
letter this time.They deserve letters because of being so unusually
prompt after the holidays.You always deserve letters, but not
specially now, any more than any other time."Uncle Peter, I wrote to my grandfather.It seems funny to think of
Albertina's aunt taking care of him now that Grandma is gone.I
suppose Albertina is there a lot.She sent me a post card for
Christmas."Uncle Peter, I miss my grandmother out of the world.I remember how I
used to take care of her, and put a soapstone in the small of her
back when she was cold.I wish sometimes that I could hold your hand,
Uncle Peter, when I get thinking about it."Well, school is the same old school.Bertha Stephens has a felon on
her finger, and that lets her out of hard work for a while.I will
enclose a poem suggested by a lecture I heard recently on Emerson.It
isn't very good, but it will help to fill up the envelope."Life

                 "Life is a great, a noble task,
                   When we fulfill our duty.To work, that should be all we ask,
                   And seek the living beauty.We know not whence we come, or where
                   Our dim pathway is leading,
                 Whether we tread on lilies fair,
                   Or trample love-lies-bleeding.But we must onward go and up,
                   Nor stop to question whither.E'en if we drink the bitter cup,
                   And fall at last, to wither."P. S. I haven't got the last verse very good yet, but I think the
second one is pretty.You know 'love-lies-bleeding' is a flower, but
it sounds allegorical the way I have put it in.*       *       *       *       *

Eleanor's fifteenth year was on the whole the least eventful year of
her life, though not by any means the least happy.She throve
exceedingly, and gained the freedom and poise of movement and
spontaneity that result from properly balanced periods of work and
play and healthful exercise.From being rather small of her age she
developed into a tall slender creature, inherently graceful and erect,
with a small, delicate head set flower-wise on a slim white neck.Gertrude never tired of modeling that lovely contour, but Eleanor
herself was quite unconscious of her natural advantages.She preferred
the snappy-eyed, stocky, ringleted type of beauty, and spent many
unhappy quarters of an hour wishing she were pretty according to the
inexorable ideals of Harmon.She spent her vacation at David's apartment in charge of Mademoiselle,
though the latter part of the summer she went to Colhassett, quite by
herself according to her own desire, and spent a month with her
grandfather, now in charge of Albertina's aunt.She found Albertina
grown into a huge girl, sunk in depths of sloth and snobbishness, who
plied her with endless questions concerning life in the gilded circles
of New York society.Eleanor found her disgusting and yet possessed of
that vague fascination that the assumption of prerogative often
carries with it.She found her grandfather very old and shrunken, yet perfectly taken
care of and with every material want supplied.She realized as she had
never done before how the faithful six had assumed the responsibility
of this household from the beginning, and how the old people had been
warmed and comforted by their bounty.She laughed to remember her
simplicity in believing that an actual salary was a perquisite of her
adoption, and understood for the first time how small a part of the
expense of their living this faithful stipend had defrayed.She looked
back incredulously on that period when she had lived with them in a
state of semi-starvation on the corn meal and cereals and very little
else that her dollar and a half a week had purchased, and the "garden
sass," that her grandfather had faithfully hoed and tended in the
straggling patch of plowed field that he would hoe and tend no more.She spent a month practically at his feet, listening to his stories,
helping him to find his pipe and tobacco and glasses, and reading the
newspaper to him, and felt amply rewarded by his final acknowledgment
that she was a good girl and he would as soon have her come again
whenever she felt like it.On her way back to school she spent a week with her friend, Margaret
Louise, in the Connecticut town where she lived with her comfortable,
commonplace family.It was while she was on this visit that the most
significant event of the entire year took place, though it was a
happening that she put out of her mind as soon as possible and never
thought of it again when she could possibly avoid it.Maggie Lou had a brother of seventeen, and one night in the corner of
a moonlit porch, when they happened to be alone for a half hour, he
had asked Eleanor to kiss him."I don't want to kiss you," Eleanor said.Then, not wishing to convey
a sense of any personal dislike to the brother of a friend to whom
she was so sincerely devoted, she added, "I don't know you well
enough."He was a big boy, with mocking blue eyes and rough tweed clothes that
hung on him loosely."When you know me better, will you let me kiss you?""I don't know," Eleanor said, still endeavoring to preserve the
amenities.He took her hand and played with it softly."You're an awful sweet little girl," he said.He pulled her back to the
chair from which she had half arisen."I don't believe in kissing _you_," she tried to say, but the words
would not come.She could only pray for deliverance through the
arrival of some member of the family.The boy's face was close to
hers.It looked sweet in the moonlight she thought.She wished he
would talk of something else besides kissing."Well, then, there's no more to be said."His breath came heavily, with little irregular catches
in it.She pushed him away and turned into the house."Don't be angry, Eleanor," he pleaded, trying to snatch at her hand."I'm not angry," she said, her voice breaking, "I just wish you
hadn't, that's all."There was no reference to this incident in the private diary, but,
with an instinct which would have formed an indissoluble bond between
herself and her Uncle Jimmie, she avoided dimly lit porches and boys
with mischievous eyes and broad tweed covered shoulders.For her guardians too, this year was comparatively smooth running and
colorless.Beulah's militant spirit sought the assuagement of a fierce
expenditure of energy on the work that came to her hand through her
new interest in suffrage.Gertrude flung herself into her sculpturing.She had been hurt as only the young can be hurt when their first
delicate desires come to naught.She was very warm-blooded and eager
under her cool veneer, and she had spent four years of hard work and
hungry yearning for the fulness of a life she was too constrained to
get any emotional hold on.Her fancy for Jimmie she believed was
quite over and done with.Margaret, warmed by secret fires and nourished by the stuff that
dreams are made of, flourished strangely in her attic chamber, and
learned the wisdom of life by some curious method of her own of
apprehending its dangers and delights.The only experiences she had
that year were two proposals of marriage, one from a timid professor
of the romance languages and the other from a young society man,
already losing his waist line, whose sensuous spirit had been stirred
by the ethereal grace of hers; but these things interested her very
little.She was the princess, spinning fine dreams and waiting for the
dawning of the golden day when the prince should come for her.Neither
she nor Gertrude ever gave a serious thought to the five-year-old vow
of celibacy, which was to Beulah as real and as binding as it had
seemed on the first day she took it.Peter and David and Jimmie went their own way after the fashion of
men, all of them identified with the quickening romance of New York
business life.David in Wall Street was proving to be something of a
financier to his mother's surprise and amazement; and the pressure
relaxed, he showed some slight initiative in social matters.In fact,
two mothers, who were on Mrs.Bolling's list as suitable
parents-in-law, took heart of grace and began angling for him
adroitly, while their daughters served him tea and made unabashed,
modern-debutante eyes at him.Jimmie, successfully working his way up to the top of his firm,
suffered intermittently from his enthusiastic abuse of the privileges
of liberty and the pursuit of happiness.His mind and soul were in
reality hot on the trail of a wife, and there was no woman among those
with whom he habitually foregathered whom his spirit recognized as his
own woman.He was further rendered helpless and miserable by the fact
that he had not the slightest idea of his trouble.He regarded himself
as a congenital Don Juan, from whom his better self shrank at times
with a revulsion of loathing.Peter felt that he had his feet very firmly on a rather uninspired
earth.He was getting on in the woolen business, which happened to be
the vocation his father had handed down to him.He belonged to an
amusing club, and he still felt himself irrevocably widowed by the
early death of the girl in the photograph he so faithfully cherished.Eleanor was a very vital interest in his life.It had seemed to him
for a few minutes at the Christmas party that she was no longer the
little girl he had known, that a lovelier, more illusive creature--a
woman--had come to displace her, but when she had flung her arms
around him he had realized that it was still the heart of a child
beating so fondly against his own.The real trouble with arrogating to ourselves the privileges of
parenthood is that our native instincts are likely to become deflected
by the substitution of the artificial for the natural responsibility.Both Peter and David had the unconscious feeling that their obligation
to their race was met by their communal interest in Eleanor.Beulah,
of course, sincerely believed that the filling in of an intellectual
concept of life was all that was required of her.Only Jimmie groped
blindly and bewilderedly for his own.Gertrude and Margaret both
understood that they were unnaturally alone in a world where lovers
met and mated, but they, too, hugged to their souls the flattering
unction that they were parents of a sort.Thus three sets of perfectly suitable and devoted young men and
women, of marriageable age, with dozens of interests and sympathies in
common, and one extraordinarily vital bond, continued to walk side by
side in a state of inhuman preoccupation, their gaze fixed inward
instead of upon one another; and no Divine Power, happening upon the
curious circumstance, believed the matter one for His intervention nor
stooped to take the respective puppets by the back of their
unconscious necks, and so knock their sluggish heads together.CHAPTER XVI

MARGARET LOUISA'S BIRTHRIGHT


"I am sixteen years and eight months old to-day," Eleanor wrote, "and
I have had the kind of experience that makes me feel as if I never
wanted to be any older.I know life is full of disillusionment and
pain, but I did not know that any one with whom you have broken bread,
and slept in the same room with, and told everything to for four long
years, could turn out to be an absolute traitor and villainess.For nearly a year now I have noticed that
Bertha Stephens avoided me, and presented the appearance of disliking
me.I don't like to have any one dislike me, and I have tried to do
little things for her that would win back her affection, but with no
success.As I was editing the Lantern I could print her essayettes (as
she called them) and do her lots of little favors in a literary way,
which she seemed to appreciate, but personally she avoided me like the
plague."Of course Stevie has lots of faults, and since Margaret Louise and I
always talked everything over we used to talk about Stevie in the same
way.I remember that she used to try to draw me out about Stevie's
character.I've always thought Stevie was a kind of piker, that is
that she would say she was going to do a thing, and then from sheer
laziness not do it.She gummed it
all up with her nasty fudge and then wouldn't give it back to me or
get me another, but the reason she wouldn't give it back to me was
because her feelings were too fine to return a damaged article, and
not fine enough to make her hump herself and get me another.That's
only one kind of a piker and not the worst kind, but it was
_pikerish_."All this I told quite frankly to Maggie--I mean Margaret Louise,
because I had no secrets from her and never thought there was any
reason why I shouldn't.Stevie has a horrid brother, also, who has
been up here to dances.All the girls hate him because he is so
spoony.He isn't as spoony as Margaret Louise's brother, but he's
quite a sloppy little spooner at that.Well, I told Margaret Louise
that I didn't like Stevie's brother, and then I made the damaging
remark that one reason I didn't like him was because he looked so much
like Stevie.I didn't bother to explain to Maggie--I will not call her
Maggie Lou any more, because that is a dear little name and sounds so
affectionate,--Margaret Louise--what I meant by this, because I
thought it was perfectly evident.Stevie is a peachy looking girl, a
snow white blonde with pinky cheeks and dimples.Well, her brother is
a snow white blond too, and he has pinky cheeks and dimples and his
name is Carlo!We, of course, at once named him Curlo.It is not a
good idea for a man to look too much like his sister, or to have too
many dimples in his chin and cheeks.I had only to think of him in the
same room with my three uncles to get his number exactly.I don't mean
to use slang in my diary, but I can't seem to help it.Professor
Mathews says that slang has a distinct function in the language--in
replenishing it, but Uncle Peter says about slang words, that'many
are called, and few are chosen,' and there is no need to try to
accommodate them all in one's vocabulary."Well, I told Margaret Louise all these things about Curlo, and how
he tried to hold my hand coming from the station one day, when the
girls all went up to meet the boys that came up for the dance,--and I
told her everything else in the world that happened to come into my
head."Then one day I got thinking about leaving Harmon--this is our senior
year, of course--and I thought that I should leave all the girls with
things just about right between us, excepting good old Stevie, who had
this queer sort of grouch against me.So I decided that I'd just go
around and have it out with her, and I did.I went into her room one
day when her roommate was out, and demanded a show down.Well, I found
out that Maggie--Margaret Louise had just repeated to Stevie every
living thing that I ever said about her, just as I said it, only
without the explanations and foot-notes that make any kind of
conversation more understandable."Stevie told me all these things one after another, without stopping,
and when she was through I wished that the floor would open and
swallow me up, but nothing so comfortable happened.I was obliged to
gaze into Stevie's overflowing eyes and own up to the truth as well as
I could, and explain it.It was the most humiliating hour that I ever
spent, but I told Stevie exactly what I felt about her 'nothing
extenuate, and naught set down in malice,' and what I had said about
her to our mutual friend, who by the way, is not the mutual friend of
either of us any longer.We were both crying by the time I had
finished, but we understood each other.There were one or two things
that she said she didn't think she would ever forget that I had said
about her, but even those she could forgive.She said that my dislike
of her had rankled in her heart so long that it took away all the
bitterness to know that I wasn't really her enemy.She said that my
coming to her that way, and not lying had showed that I had lots of
character, and she thought in time that we could be quite intimate
friends if I wanted to as much as she did."After my talk with Stevie I still hoped against hope that Margaret
Louise would turn out to have some reason or excuse for what she had
done.I knew she had done it, but when a thing like that happens that
upsets your whole trust in a person you simply can not believe the
evidence of your own senses.When you read of a situation like that
in a book you are all prepared for it by the author, who has taken the
trouble to explain the moral weakness or unpleasantness of the
character, and given you to understand that you are to expect a
betrayal from him or her; but when it happens in real life out of a
clear sky you have nothing to go upon that makes you even _believe_
what you know."I won't even try to describe the scene that occurred between Margaret
Louise and me.She cried and she lied, and she accused me of trying to
curry favor with Stevie, and Stevie of being a backbiter, and she
argued and argued about all kinds of things but the truth, and when I
tried to pin her down to it, she ducked and crawled and sidestepped in
a way that was dreadful.I've seen her do something like it before
about different things, and I ought to have known then what she was
like inside of her soul, but I guess you have to be the object of such
a scene before you realize the full force of it."All I said was, 'Margaret Louise, if that's all you've got to say
about the injury you have done me, then everything is over between us
from this minute;' and it was, too."I feel as if I had been writing a beautiful story or poem on what I
thought was an enduring tablet of marble, and some one had come and
wiped it all off as if it were mere scribblings on a slate.I don't
know whether it would seem like telling tales to tell Uncle Peter or
not; I don't quite know whether I want to tell him.Sometimes I wish I
had a mother to tell such things to.It seems to me that a real mother
would know what to say that would help you.Disillusion is a very
strange thing--like death, only having people die seems more natural
somehow.When they die you can remember the happy hours that you spent
with them, but when disillusionment comes then you have lost even your
beautiful memories."We had for the subject of our theme this week, 'What Life Means to
Me,' which of course was the object of many facetious remarks from the
girls, but I've been thinking that if I sat down seriously to state in
just so many words what life means to _me_, I hardly know what I would
transcribe.It means disillusionment and death for one thing.Since my
grandfather died last year I have had nobody left of my own in the
world,--no real blood relation.Of course, I am a good deal fonder of
my aunts and uncles than most people are of their own flesh and blood,
but own flesh and blood is a thing that it makes you feel shivery to
be without.If I had been Margaret Louise's own flesh and blood, she
would never have acted like that to me.Stevie stuck up for Carlo as
if he was really something to be proud of.Perhaps my uncles and aunts
feel that way about me, I don't know.I don't even know if I feel that
way about them.I certainly criticize them in my soul at times, and
feel tired of being dragged around from pillar to post.I don't feel
that way about Uncle Peter, but there is nobody else that I am
certain, positive sure that I love better than life itself.If there
is only one in the world that you feel that way about, I might not be
Uncle Peter's one.I wish Margaret Louise had not sold her birthright for a mess of
pottage.I wish I had a home that I had a perfect right to go and live
in forevermore.I wish my mother was here to comfort me to-night."CHAPTER XVII

A REAL KISS


At seventeen, Eleanor was through at Harmon.She was to have one year
of preparatory school and then it was the desire of Beulah's heart
that she should go to Rogers.The others contended that the higher
education should be optional and not obligatory.The decision was
finally to be left to Eleanor herself, after she had considered it in
all its bearings."If she doesn't decide in favor of college," David said, "and she
makes her home with me here, as I hope she will do, of course, I don't
see what society we are going to be able to give her.Unfortunately
none of our contemporaries have growing daughters.She ought to meet
eligible young men and that sort of thing."The two were having a cozy cup of tea at
his apartment."You're so terribly worldly, David, that you frighten
me sometimes.""You don't know where I will end, is that the idea?""I don't know where Eleanor will end, if you're already thinking of
eligible young men for her.""Those things have got to be thought of," David answered gravely."I don't want her to be
married.I want to take her off by myself and growl over her all alone
for a while.Then I want Prince Charming to come along and snatch her
up quickly, and set her behind his milk white charger and ride away
with her.If we've all got to get together and connive at marrying her
off there won't be any comfort in having her.""I don't know," David said thoughtfully; "I think that might be fun,
too.A vicarious love-affair that you can manipulate is one of the
most interesting games in the world.""That's not my idea of an interesting game," Margaret said."I like
things very personal, David,--you ought to know that by this time.""I do know that," David said, "but it sometimes occurs to me that
except for a few obvious facts of that nature I really know very
little about you, Margaret.""There isn't much to know--except that I'm a woman.""That's a good deal," David answered slowly; "to a mere man that seems
to be considerable of an adventure.""It is about as much of an adventure sometimes as it would be to be a
field of clover in an insectless world.--This is wonderful tea, David,
but your cream is like butter and floats around in it in wudges.No,
don't get any more, I've got to go home.Grandmother still thinks it's
very improper for me to call upon you, in spite of Mademoiselle and
your ancient and honorable housekeeper.""Don't go," David said; "I apologize on my knees for the cream.I'll
send out and have it wet down, or whatever you do to cream in that
state."About the cream, or the proprieties?"I'm a little bit tired of being
one, that's all, and I want to go home.""She wants to go home when she's being so truly delightful and
cryptic," David said."Have you been seeing visions, Margaret, in my
hearth fire?She rose and stood absently fitting
her gloves to her fingers."I don't know exactly what it was I saw,
but it was something that made me uncomfortable.It gives me the
creeps to talk about being a woman.David, do you know sometimes I
have a kind of queer hunch about Eleanor?I love her, you know,
dearly, dearly.I think that she is a very successful kind of
Frankenstein; but there are moments when I have the feeling that she's
going to be a storm center and bring some queer trouble upon us.I
wouldn't say this to anybody but you, David."As David tucked her in the car--he had arrived at the dignity of
owning one now--and watched her sweet silhouette disappear, he, too,
had his moment of clairvoyance.He felt that he was letting something
very precious slip out of sight, as if some radiant and delicate gift
had been laid lightly within his grasp and as lightly withdrawn again.As if when the door closed on his friend Margaret some stranger, more
silent creature who was dear to him had gone with her.As soon as he
was dressed for dinner he called Margaret on the telephone to know if
she had arrived home safely, and was informed not only that she had,
but that she was very wroth at him for getting her down three flights
of stairs in the midst of her own dinner toilet."I had a kind of hunch, too," he told her, "and I felt as if I wanted
to hear your voice speaking.""If that's the way you feel about your chauffeur," she said, "you
ought to discharge him, but he brought me home beautifully."The difference between a man's moments of prescience and a woman's, is
that the man puts them out of his consciousness as quickly as he can,
while a woman clings to them fearfully and goes her way a little more
carefully for the momentary flash of foresight.David tried to see
Margaret once or twice during that week but failed to find her in when
he called or telephoned, and the special impulse to seek her alone
again died naturally.One Saturday a few weeks later Eleanor telegraphed him that she
wished to come to New York for the week-end to do some shopping.He went to the train to meet her, and when the slender chic figure in
the most correct of tailor made suits appeared at the gateway, with an
obsequious porter bearing her smart bag and ulster, he gave a sudden
gasp of surprise at the picture.He had been aware for some time of
the increase in her inches and the charm of the pure cameo-cut
profile, but he regarded her still as a child histrionically assuming
the airs and graces of womanhood, as small girl children masquerade in
the trailing skirts of their elders.He was accustomed to the idea
that she was growing up rapidly, but the fact that she was already
grown had never actually dawned on him until this moment."You look as if you were surprised to see me, Uncle David,--are you?"she said, slipping a slim hand, warm through its immaculate glove,
into his."You knew I was coming, and you came to meet me, and yet you
looked as surprised as if you hadn't expected me at all.""Surprised to see you just about expresses it, Eleanor.I was looking for a little girl in hair ribbons with her
skirts to her knees.""And a blue tam-o'-shanter?""And a blue tam-o'-shanter.I had forgotten you had grown up any to
speak of.""You see me every vacation," Eleanor grumbled, as she stepped into the
waiting motor."It isn't because you lack opportunity that you don't
notice what I look like.It's just because you're naturally
unobserving.""Peter and Jimmie have been making a good deal of fuss about your
being a young lady, now I think of it.Peter especially has been
rather a nuisance about it, breaking into my most precious moments of
triviality with the sweetly solemn thought that our little girl has
grown to be a woman now.""Oh, does _he_ think I'm grown up, does he really?"He's all the time wanting me to get you to
New York over the weekend, so that he can see if you are any taller
than you were the last time he saw you.""Are they coming to see me this evening?""Jimmie is going to look in.You
know she's on here from China with her daughter."She must be as grown up as I am," Eleanor said."I used to have her
room, you know, when I stayed with Uncle Peter."Not as much as he likes you, Miss Green-eyes.He says she looks like
a heathen Chinee but otherwise is passable.I didn't know that you
added jealousy to the list of your estimable vices.""I'm not jealous," Eleanor protested; "or if I am it's only because
she's blood relation,--and I'm not, you know.""It's a good deal more prosaic to be a blood relation, if anybody
should ask you," David smiled."A blood relation is a good deal like
the famous primrose on the river's brim.""'A primrose by the river's brim a yellow primrose was to him,--and
nothing more,'" Eleanor quoted gaily."Why, what more--" she broke off
suddenly and  slightly."What more would anybody want to be than a yellow primrose by the
river's brim?""I don't know, I'm sure.I'm a
mere man and such questions are too abstruse for me, as I told your
Aunt Margaret the other day.Now I think of it, though, you don't look
unlike a yellow primrose yourself to-day, daughter.""That's because I've got a yellow ribbon on my hat."It has something to do with
youth and fragrance and the flowers that bloom in the spring.""The flowers that bloom in the spring, tra la," Eleanor returned
saucily, "have nothing to do with the case.""She's learning that she has eyes, good Lord," David said to himself,
but aloud he remarked paternally, "I saw all your aunts yesterday.Gertrude gave a tea party and invited a great many famous tea party
types, and ourselves."Beulah was there, like the famous Queenie,
with her hair in a braid."She's gone in for dress reform now, you know, a kind
of middy blouse made out of a striped portiere with a kilted skirt of
the same material and a Scotch cap.Your Aunt Beulah presents a peculiar phenomenon these days.She's
growing better-looking and behaving worse every day of her life.""She's theory ridden and fad bitten.She'll come to a bad end if
something doesn't stop her.""Do you mean--stop her working for suffrage?I'm a suffragist, Uncle
David.""And quite right to remind me of it before I began slamming the cause.I mean the
way she's going after it.There are healthy ways of insisting on your
rights and unhealthy ways.Beulah's getting further and further off
key, that's all.Your poor old
cooperative father welcomes you to the associated hearthstone.""This front entrance looks more like my front entrance than any other
place does," Eleanor said.she asked the black elevator man, who beamed delightedly
upon her.I didn't know he had one," David chuckled."It takes a
woman--"

Jimmie appeared in the evening, laden with violets and a five pound
box of the chocolates most in favor in the politest circles at the
moment."What's devouring you, papa?""Don't I always place
tributes at the feet of the offspring?""Mirror candy and street corner violets, yes," David said."It's only
the labels that surprised me.""She knows the difference, now," Jimmie answered, "what would you?"The night before her return to school it was decreed that she should
go to bed early.She had spent two busy days of shopping and "seeing
the family."She had her hours discussing her future with Peter, long
visits and talks with Margaret and Gertrude, and a cup of tea at
suffrage headquarters with Beulah, as well as long sessions in the
shops accompanied by Mademoiselle, who made her home now permanently
with David.She sat before the fire drowsily constructing pyramids out
of the embers and David stood with one arm on the mantel, smoking his
after-dinner cigar, and watching her."I can't seem to make up my mind, Uncle David.""Yes, I'd love it,--if--"

"If what, daughter?""If I thought I could spare the time.""I'm going to earn my own living, you know."I've got to--in order to--to feel right about things.""Don't you like the style of living to which your cooperative parents
have accustomed you?""I love everything you've ever done for me, but I can't go on letting
you do things for me forever."It doesn't seem--right, that's all.""It's your New England conscience, Eleanor; one of the most specious
varieties of consciences in the world.It will always be tempting you
to do good that better may come.I don't know whether I would be better
fitted to earn my living if I went to business college or real
college."I can't think,--I'm stupefied.""Uncle Peter couldn't think, either.""Have you mentioned this brilliant idea to Peter?""He talked it over with me, but I think he thinks I'll change my
mind."Eleanor, we're all
able to afford you--the little we spend on you is nothing divided
among six of us.When did you come to
this extraordinary decision?"Bolling talked to me, I think.There are things she said that I've never forgotten.I told Uncle
Peter to think about it and then help me to decide which to do, and I
want you to think, Uncle David, and tell me truly what you believe
the best preparation for a business life would be.I thought perhaps I
might be a stenographer in an editorial office, and my training there
would be more use to me than four years at college, but I don't
know.""You're an extraordinary young woman," David said, staring at her."I'm glad you broached this subject, if only that I might realize how
extraordinary, but I don't think anything will come of it, my dear.I
don't want you to go to college unless you really want to, but if you
do want to, I hope you will take up the pursuit of learning as a
pursuit and not as a means to an end."Then let's have no more of this nonsense of earning your own
living.""Are you really displeased, Uncle David?""I should be if I thought you were serious,--but it's bedtime.If
you're going to get your beauty sleep, my dear, you ought to begin on
it immediately."Eleanor rose obediently, her brow clouded a little, and her head held
high.David watched the color coming and going in the sweet face and
the tender breast rising and falling with her quickening breath."I thought perhaps you would understand," she said.She had always kissed him "good night" until this visit, and he had
refrained from commenting on the omission before, but now he put out
his hand to her."There is only one way
for a daughter to say good night to her parent."She put up her face, and as she did so he caught the glint of tears in
her eyes."Why, Eleanor, dear," he said, "did you care?"With his arms still about her shoulder he stood looking down at her.A
hot tide of crimson made its way slowly to her brow and then receded,
accentuating the clear pallor of her face."That was a real kiss, dear," he said slowly."We mustn't get such
things confused.I won't bother you with talking about it to-night, or
until you are ready.Until then we'll pretend that it didn't happen,
but if the thought of it should ever disturb you the least bit, dear,
you are to remember that the time is coming when I shall have
something to say about it; will you remember?""Yes, Uncle David," Eleanor said uncertainly, "but I--I--"

David took her unceremoniously by the shoulders."Go now," he said, and she obeyed him without further question.CHAPTER XVIII

BEULAH'S PROBLEM


Peter was shaving for the evening.His sister was giving a dinner
party for two of her husband's fellow bankers and their wives.After
that they were going to see the latest Belasco production, and from
there to some one of the new dancing "clubs,"--the smart cabarets that
were forced to organize in the guise of private enterprises to evade
the two o'clock closing law.Peter enjoyed dancing, but he did not as
a usual thing enjoy bankers' wives.He was deliberating on the
possibility of excusing himself gracefully after the theater, on the
plea of having some work to do, and finally decided that his sister's
feelings would be hurt if she realized he was trying to escape the
climax of the hospitality she had provided so carefully.He gazed at himself intently over the drifts of lather and twisted his
shaving mirror to the most propitious angle from time to time.In the
room across the hall--Eleanor's room, he always called it to
himself--his young niece was singing bits of the Mascagni intermezzo
interspersed with bits of the latest musical comedy, in a rather
uncertain contralto."My last girl came from Vassar, and I don't know where to class her.""My last girl--" and
began at the beginning of the chorus again."My last girl came from
Vassar," which brought him by natural stages to the consideration of
the higher education and of Beulah, and a conversation concerning her
that he had had with Jimmie and David the night before."She's off her nut," Jimmie said succinctly."It's not exactly that
there's nobody home," he rapped his curly pate significantly, "but
there's too much of a crowd there.She's not the same old girl at all.She used to be a good fellow, high-brow propaganda and all.Now she's
got nothing else in her head."It's what hasn't happened to her that's addled her," David explained."It's these highly charged, hypersensitive young women that go to
pieces under the modern pressure.They're the ones that need licking
into shape by all the natural processes.""By which you mean a drunken husband and a howling family?""Feminism isn't the answer to
Beulah's problem.""It is the problem," David said; "she's poisoning herself with it.My cousin Jack
married a girl with a sister a great deal like Beulah, looks,
temperament, and everything else, though she wasn't half so nice.She
got going the militant pace and couldn't stop herself.I never met her
at a dinner party that she wasn't tackling somebody on the subject of
man's inhumanity to woman.She ended in a sanitorium; in fact, they're
thinking now of taking her to the--"

"--bug house," Jimmie finished cheerfully."And in the beginning she was a perfectly good girl that needed
nothing in the world but a chance to develop along legitimate lines.""The frustrate matron," David agreed gravely."I wonder you haven't
realized this yourself, Gram.You're keener about such things than I
am.Beulah is more your job than mine.""You're the only one she listens to or looks up to.Go up and tackle
her some day and see what you can do."Give her the once over and throw out the lifeline," Jimmie said."I thought all this stuff was a phase, a part of her taking herself
seriously as she always has.I had no idea it was anything to worry
about," Peter persisted."Are you sure she's in bad shape--that she's
got anything more than a bad attack of Feminism of the Species in its
most virulent form?They come out of _that_, you know.""She's batty," Jimmie nodded gravely."Go up and look her over," David persisted; "you'll see what we mean,
then.Peter reviewed this conversation while he shaved the right side of his
face, and frowned prodigiously through the lather.He wished that he
had an engagement that evening that he could break in order to get to
see Beulah at once, and discover for himself the harm that had come to
his friend.He had always felt that he saw
a little more clearly than the others the virtue that was in the girl.He admired the pluck with which she made her attack on life and the
energy with which she accomplished her ends.There was to him
something alluring and quaint about her earnestness.The fact that her
soundness could be questioned came to him with something like a shock.As soon as he was dressed he was called to the telephone to talk to
David."Margaret has just told me that Doctor Penrose has been up to see
Beulah and pronounces it a case of nervous breakdown.He wants her to
try out <DW43>-analysis, and that sort of thing.He seems to feel that
it's serious.Margaret is fearfully upset, poor girl.So'm I, to tell
the truth.""And so am I," Peter acknowledged to himself as he hung up the
receiver.He was so absorbed during the evening that one of the
ladies--the wife of the fat banker--found him extremely dull and
decided against asking him to dinner with his sister.The wife of the
thin banker, who was in his charge at the theater, got the benefit of
his effort to rouse himself and grace the occasion creditably, and
found him delightful.By the time the evening was over he had decided
that Beulah should be pulled out of whatever dim world of dismay and
delusion she might be wandering in, at whatever cost.It was
unthinkable that she should be wasted, or that her youth and splendid
vitality should go for naught.He found her eager to talk to him the next night when he went to see
her."Peter," she said, "I want you to go to my aunt and my mother, and
tell them that I've got to go on with my work,--that I can't be
stopped and interrupted by this foolishness of doctors and nurses.I
never felt better in my life, except for not being able to sleep, and
I think that is due to the way they have worried me.I live in a world
they don't know anything about, that's all.Even if they were right,
if I am wearing myself out soul and body for the sake of the cause,
what business is it of theirs to interfere?I'm working for the souls
and bodies of women for ages to come.What difference does it make if
my soul and body suffer?Peter
observed the unnatural light in them, the apparent dryness of her
lips, the two bright spots burning below her cheek-bones."Because," he answered her slowly, "I don't think it was the original
intention of Him who put us here that we should sacrifice everything
we are to the business of emphasizing the superiority of a sex.""That isn't the point at all, Peter.No man understands, no man can
understand.It's woman's equality we want emphasized, just literally
that and nothing more.You've pauperized and degraded us long
enough--"

"Thou canst not say I--" Peter began."Yes, you and every other man, every man in the world is a party to
it.""I had to get her going," Peter apologized to himself, "in order to
get a point of departure.Not if I vote for women, Beulah, dear," he
added aloud."If you throw your influence with us instead of against us," she
conceded, "you're helping to right the wrong that you have permitted
for so long.""Well, granting your premise, granting all your premises, Beulah--and
I admit that most of them have sound reasoning behind them--your
battle now is all over but the shouting.There's no reason that you
personally should sacrifice your last drop of energy to a campaign
that's practically won already.""If you think the mere franchise is all I have been working for,
Peter,--"

"I don't.I know the thousand and one activities you women are
concerned with.I know how much better church and state always have
been and are bound to be, when the women get behind and push, if they
throw their strength right."Beulah rose enthusiastically to this bait and talked rationally and
well for some time.Just as Peter was beginning to feel that David and
Jimmie had been guilty of the most unsympathetic exaggeration of her
state of mind--unquestionably she was not as fit physically as
usual--she startled him with an abrupt change into almost hysterical
incoherence."I have a right to live my own life," she concluded, "and
nobody--nobody shall stop me.""We are all living our own lives, aren't we?""No woman lives her own life to-day," Beulah cried, still excitedly."Every woman is living the life of some man, who has the legal right
to treat her as an imbecile."How about the suffrage states, how about the women
who are already in the proud possession of their rights and
privileges?They are not technical imbeciles any longer according to
your theory.Every woman will be a super-woman in
two shakes,--so what's devouring you, as Jimmie says?""It's after all the states have suffrage that the big fight will
really begin," Beulah answered wearily."It's the habit of wearing the
yoke we'll have to fight then.""The anti-feminists," Peter said, "I see.Beulah, can't you give
yourself any rest, or is the nature of the cause actually suicidal?"To his surprise her tense face quivered at this and she tried to
steady a tremulous lower lip."I am tired," she said, a little piteously, "dreadfully tired, but
nobody cares.""They only want to stop me doing something they have no sympathy with.What do Gertrude and Margaret know of the real purpose of my life or
my failure or success?They take a sentimental interest in my health,
that's all.Do you suppose it made any difference to Jeanne d'Arc how
many people took a sympathetic interest in her health if they didn't
believe in what she believed in?""I thought Eleanor would grow up to take an interest in the position
of women, and to care about the things I cared about, but she's not
going to.""Not as fond as she is of Margaret."Peter longed to dispute this, but he could not in honesty."She's so lukewarm she might just as well be an anti.They drag us back like
so much dead weight.""I suppose Eleanor has been a disappointment to you," Peter mused,
"but she tries pretty hard to be all things to all parents, Beulah.You'll find she won't fail you if you need her.""I shan't need her," Beulah said, prophetically."I hoped she'd stand
beside me in the work, but she's not that kind.She'll marry early and
have a family, and that will be the end of her.""I wonder if she will," Peter said, "I hope so.She still seems such
a child to me.I believe in marriage, Beulah, don't you?"I made a vow once that I would never
marry and I've always believed that it would be hampering and limiting
to a woman, but now I see that the fight has got to go on.If there
are going to be women to carry on the fight they will have to be born
of the women who are fighting to-day.""It doesn't make any difference why
you believe it, if you do believe it.""It makes all the difference," Beulah said, but her voice softened."What I believe is more to me than anything else in the world,
Peter."I understand your point of view, Beulah.You
carry it a little bit too far, that's all that's wrong with it from my
way of thinking.""Will you help me to go on, Peter?"Tell them that they're all wrong in
their treatment of me.""I think I could undertake to do that"--Peter was convinced that a
less antagonistic attitude on the part of her relatives would be more
successful--"and I will.""You're the only one who comes anywhere near knowing," she said, "or
who ever will, I guess.I try so hard, Peter, and now when I don't
seem to be accomplishing as much as I want to, as much as it's
necessary for me to accomplish if I am to go on respecting myself,
every one enters into a conspiracy to stop my doing anything at all.The only thing that makes me nervous is the way I am thwarted and
opposed at every turn."Perhaps not, but you have something remarkably like _idee fixe_,"
Peter said to himself compassionately.He found her actual condition less dangerous but much more difficult
than he had anticipated.She was living wrong, that was the sum and
substance of her malady.Her life was spent confronting theories and
discounting conditions.She did not realize that it is only the
interest of our investment in life that we can sanely contribute to
the cause of living.Our capital strength and energy must be used for
the struggle for existence itself if we are to have a world of
balanced individuals.There is an arrogance involved in assuming
ourselves more humane than human that reacts insidiously on our health
and morals.Peter, looking into the twitching hectic face before him
with the telltale glint of mania in the eyes, felt himself becoming
helpless with pity for a mind gone so far askew.He felt curiously
responsible for Beulah's condition."She wouldn't have run herself so far aground," he thought, "if I had
been on the job a little more.I could have helped her to steer
straighter.A word here and a lift there and she would have come
through all right.Now something's got to stop her or she can't be
stopped.She'll preach once too often out of the tail of a cart on the
subject of equal guardianship,--and--"

Beulah put her hands to her face suddenly, and, sinking back into the
depths of the big cushioned chair on the edge of which she had been
tensely poised during most of the conversation, burst into tears."You're the only one that knows," she sobbed over and over again."I'm so tired, Peter, but I've got to go on and on and on.If they
stop me, I'll kill myself."Peter crossed the room to her side and sat down on her chair-arm."Don't cry, dear," he said, with a hand on her head."You're too tired
to think things out now,--but I'll help you."She lifted a piteous face, for the moment so startlingly like that of
the dead girl he had loved that his senses were confused by the
resemblance."I think I see the way," he said slowly.He slipped to his knees and gathered her close in his arms."I think this will be the way, dear," he said very gently."Does this mean that you want me to marry you?"she whispered, when
she was calmer."If you will, dear," he said."I will,--if I can, if I can make it seem right to after I've thought
it all out.--Oh!"I had no idea of that," he said gravely, "but it's wonderful that
you do.I'll put everything I've got into trying to make you happy,
Beulah."Her arms closed around his neck and
tightened there.He made her comfortable and she relaxed like a tired child, almost
asleep under his soothing hand, and the quiet spell of his
tenderness."I didn't know it could be like this," she whispered.In his heart he was saying, "This is best.It
is the right and normal way for her--and for me."In her tri-cornered dormitory room at the new school which she was not
sharing with any one this year Eleanor, enveloped in a big brown and
yellow wadded bathrobe, was writing a letter to Peter.Her hair hung
in two golden brown braids over her shoulders and her pure profile was
bent intently over the paper.At the moment when Beulah made her
confession of love and closed her eyes against the breast of the man
who had just asked her to marry him, two big tears forced their way
between Eleanor's lids and splashed down upon her letter.CHAPTER XIX

MOSTLY UNCLE PETER


"Dear Uncle Peter," the letter ran, "I am very, very homesick and
lonely for you to-day.It seems to me that I would gladly give a whole
year of my life just for the privilege of being with you, and talking
instead of writing,--but since that can not be, I am going to try and
write you about the thing that is troubling me.I can't bear it alone
any longer, and still I don't know whether it is the kind of thing
that it is honorable to tell or not.So you see I am very much
troubled and puzzled, and this trouble involves some one else in a way
that it is terrible to think of."Uncle Peter, dear, I do not want to be married.Not until I have
grown up, and seen something of the world.You know it is one of my
dearest wishes to be self-supporting, not because I am a Feminist or a
new woman, or have 'the unnatural belief of an antipathy to man' that
you're always talking about, but just because it will prove to me once
and for all that I belong to myself, and that my _soul_ isn't, and
never has been cooperative.You know what I mean by this, and you are
not hurt by my feeling so.You, I am sure, would not want me to be
married, or to have to think of myself as engaged, especially not to
anybody that we all knew and loved, and who is very close to me and
you in quite another way.Please don't try to imagine what I mean,
Uncle Peter--even if you know, you must tell yourself that you don't
know.Please, please pretend even to yourself that I haven't written
you this letter.I know people do tell things like this, but I don't
know quite how they bring themselves to do it, even if they have
somebody like you who understands everything--everything."Uncle Peter, dear, I am supposed to be going to be married by and by
when the one who wants it feels that it can be spoken of, and until
that happens, I've got to wait for him to speak, unless I can find
some way to tell him that I do not want it ever to be.I don't know
how to tell him.I don't know how to make him feel that I do not
belong to him.It is only myself I belong to, and I belong to you, but
I don't know how to make that plain to any one who does not know it
already.I can't say it unless perhaps you can help me to.I know every girl always thinks
there is something different about her, but I think there are ways in
which I truly am different.When I want anything I know more clearly
what it is, and why I want it than most other girls do, and not only
that, but I know now, that I want to keep myself, and everything I
think and feel and am,--_sacred_.There is an inner shrine in a
woman's soul that she must keep inviolate."A liberty that you haven't known how, or had the strength to prevent,
is a terrible thing.Uncle Peter, dear, twice in
my life things have happened that drive me almost desperate when I
think of them.If these things should happen again when I know that I
don't want them to, I don't think there would be any way of my bearing
it.Perhaps you can tell me something that will make me find a way out
of this tangle.I don't see what it could be, but lots of times you
have shown me the way out of endless mazes that were not grown up
troubles like this, but seemed very real to me just the same."Uncle Peter, dear, dear, dear,--you are all I have.I wish you were
here to-night, though you wouldn't be let in, even if you beat on the
gate ever so hard, for it's long after bedtime.I am up in my tower
room all alone.*       *       *       *       *

Eleanor read her letter over and addressed a tear splotched envelope
to Peter.Then she slowly tore letter and envelope into little bits."He would know," she said to herself."I haven't any real right to
tell him.It would be just as bad as any kind of tattling."She began another letter to him but found she could not write without
saying what was in her heart, and so went to bed uncomforted.There
was nothing in her experience to help her in her relation to David.His kiss on her lips had taught her the nature of such kisses: had
made her understand suddenly the ease with which the strange, sweet
spell of sex is cast.She related it to the episode of the unwelcome
caress bestowed upon her by the brother of Maggie Lou, and that half
forgotten incident took on an almost terrible significance.She
understood now how she should have repelled that unconscionable boy,
but that understanding did not help her with the problem of her Uncle
David.Though the thought of it thrilled through her with a strange
incredible delight, she did not want another kiss of his upon her
lips."It's--it's--like that," she said to herself."I want it to be from
somebody--else.Somebody that would make it
seem right."She felt that she
must get upon her own feet quickly and be under no obligation to any
man.Vaguely her stern New England rearing was beginning to indicate
the way that she should tread.No man or woman who did not understand
"the value of a dollar," was properly equipped to do battle with the
realities of life.The value of a dollar, and a clear title to
it--these were the principles upon which her integrity must be founded
if she were to survive her own self-respect.Her Puritan fathers had
bestowed this heritage upon her.She had always felt the irregularity
of her economic position; now that the complication of her relation
with David had arisen, it was beginning to make her truly
uncomfortable.David had been very considerate of her, but his consideration
frightened her.He had been so afraid that she might be hurt or
troubled by his attitude toward her that he had explained again, and
almost in so many words that he was only waiting for her to grow
accustomed to the idea before he asked her to become his wife.She had
looked forward with considerable trepidation to the Easter vacation
following the establishment of their one-sided understanding, but
David relieved her apprehension by putting up at his club and leaving
her in undisturbed possession of his quarters.There, with
Mademoiselle still treating her as a little girl, and the other five
of her heterogeneous foster family to pet and divert her at intervals,
she soon began to feel her life swing back into a more accustomed and
normal perspective.David's attitude to her was as simple as ever, and
when she was with the devoted sextet she was almost able to forget the
matter that was at issue between them--almost but not quite.She took quite a new kind of delight in her association with the
group.She found herself suddenly on terms of grown up equality with
them.Her consciousness of the fact that David was tacitly waiting
for her to become a woman, had made a woman of her already, and she
looked on her guardians with the eyes of a woman, even though a very
newly fledged and timorous one.She was a trifle self-conscious with the others, but with Jimmie she
was soon on her old familiar footing.*       *       *       *       *

"Uncle Jimmie is still a great deal of fun," she wrote in her diary."He does just the same old things he used to do with me, and a good
many new ones in addition.He brings me flowers, and gets me taxi-cabs
as if I were really a grown up young lady, and he pinches my nose and
teases me as if I were still the little girl that kept house in a
studio for him.I never realized before what a good-looking man he is.I used to think that Uncle Peter was the only handsome man of the
three, but now I realize that they are all exceptionally good-looking.Uncle David has a great deal of distinction, of course, but Uncle
Jimmie is merry and radiant and vital, and tall and athletic looking
into the bargain.The ladies on the Avenue all turn to look at him
when we go walking.He says that the gentlemen all turn to look at
me, and I think perhaps they do when I have my best clothes on, but in
my school clothes I am quite certain that nothing like that happens."I have been out with Uncle Jimmie Tuesday and Wednesday and Thursday
and Friday,--four days of my vacation.We've been to the Hippodrome
and Chinatown, and we've dined at Sherry's, and one night we went down
to the little Italian restaurant where I had my first introduction to
_eau rougie_, and was so distressed about it.I shall never forget
that night, and I don't think Uncle Jimmie will ever be done teasing
me about it.It is nice to be with Uncle Jimmie so much, but I never
seem to see Uncle Peter any more.Alphonse is very careful about
taking messages, I know, but it does seem to me that Uncle Peter must
have telephoned more times than I know of.It does seem as if he
would, at least, try to see me long enough to have one of our old time
talks again.To see him with all the others about is only a very
little better than not seeing him at all.He isn't like himself,
someway.There is a shadow over him that I do not understand."*       *       *       *       *

"Don't you think that Uncle Peter has changed?"she asked Jimmie,
when the need of speaking of him became too strong to withstand."He is a little pale about the ears," Jimmie conceded, "but I think
that's the result of hard work and not enough exercise.He spends all
his spare time trying to patch up Beulah instead of tramping and
getting out on his horse the way he used to.He's doing a good job on
the old dear, but it's some job, nevertheless and notwithstanding--"

"Is Aunt Beulah feeling better than she was?"Eleanor's lips were dry,
but she did her best to make her voice sound natural.It seemed
strange that Jimmie could speak so casually of a condition of affairs
that made her very heart stand still."I didn't know that Uncle Peter
had been taking care of her.""Taking care of her isn't a circumstance to what Peter has been doing
for Beulah.You know she hasn't been right for some time.She got
burning wrong, like the flame on our old gas stove in the studio when
there was air in it.""Uncle David thought so the last time I was here," Eleanor said, "but
I didn't know that Uncle Peter--"

"Peter, curiously enough, was the last one to tumble.Dave and I got
alarmed about the girl and held a consultation, with the result that
Doctor Gramercy was called.If we'd believed he would go into it quite
so heavily we might have thought again before we sicked him on.It's
very nice for Mary Ann, but rather tough on Abraham as they said when
the lady was deposited on that already overcrowded bosom.Now Beulah's
got suffrage mania, and Peter's got Beulah mania, and it's a merry
mess all around."You haven't seen much of him since you came, have
you?--Well, the reason is that every afternoon as soon as he can get
away from the office, he puts on a broad sash marked 'Votes for
Women,' and trundles Beulah around in her little white and green
perambulator, trying to distract her mind from suffrage while he talks
to her gently and persuasively upon the subject.Suffrage is the only
subject on her mind, he explains, so all he can do is to try to cuckoo
gently under it day by day.It's a very complicated process but he's
making headway.""I'm glad of that," Eleanor said faintly."How--how is Aunt Gertrude?I don't see her very often, either."It was Jimmie's turn to look self-conscious."She never has time for me any more; I'm not high-brow enough for her.She's getting on like a streak, you know, exhibiting everywhere."She gave me a cast of her faun's head."She is, I guess, but don't let's waste all our valuable time talking
about the family.Let's talk about us--you and me.You ask me how I'm
feeling and then I'll tell you.Then I'll ask you how you're feeling
and you'll tell me.Then I'll tell you how I imagine you must be
feeling from the way you're looking,--and that will give me a chance
to expatiate on the delectability of your appearance.I'll work up
delicately to the point where you will begin to compare me favorably
with all the other nice young men you know,--and then we'll be off."Eleanor asked, beginning to sparkle a little."We shall indeed," he assured her solemnly.No, on second
thoughts, I'll begin.I'll begin at the place where I start telling
you how excessively well you're looking.I don't know, considering its
source, whether it would interest you or not, but you have the biggest
blue eyes that I've, ever seen in all my life,--and I'm rather a judge
of them.""All the better to eat you with, my dear," Eleanor chanted.He shot her a queer glance from under his eyebrows."I don't feel very safe when I look into them, my child.It would be a
funny joke on me if they did prove fatal to me, wouldn't
it?--well,--but away with such nonsense.I mustn't blither to the very
babe whose cradle I am rocking, must I?""I'm not a babe, Uncle Jimmie.Peter says
that you even disconcert him at times, when you take to remembering
things out of your previous experience.""'When he was a King in Babylon and I was a Christian Slave?'"Only I'd prefer to play the part of the King of Babylon, if
it's all the same to you, niecelet.How does the rest of it go, 'yet
not for a--' something or other 'would I wish undone that deed beyond
the grave.'Gosh, my dear, if things were otherwise, I think I could
understand how that feller felt.Get on your hat, and let's get out
into the open.My soul is cramped with big potentialities this
afternoon.I wish you hadn't grown up, Eleanor.You are taking my
breath away in a peculiar manner.No man likes to have his breath
taken away so suddint like.Let's get out into the rolling prairie of
Central Park."But the rest of the afternoon was rather a failure.The Park had that
peculiar bleakness that foreruns the first promise of spring.The
children, that six weeks before were playing in the snow and six weeks
later would be searching the turf for dandelions, were in the listless
between seasons state of comparative inactivity.There was a deceptive
balminess in the air that seemed merely to overlay a penetrating
chilliness."I'm sorry I'm not more entertaining this afternoon," Jimmie
apologized on the way home."It isn't that I am not happy, or that I
don't feel the occasion to be more than ordinarily propitious; I'm
silent upon a peak in Darien,--that's all.""I was thinking of something else, too," Eleanor said."I didn't say I was thinking of something else.""People are always thinking of something else when they aren't talking
to each other, aren't they?""Something else, or each other, Eleanor.I wasn't thinking of
something else, I was thinking--well, I won't tell you exactly--at
present."A penny is a good deal of money."I'm afraid I couldn't--buy joy, even if you gave me your penny, Uncle
Jimmie."My penny might not be like other pennies.On the other
hand, your thoughts might be worth a fortune to me.""I'm afraid they wouldn't be worth anything to anybody.""You simply don't know what I am capable of making out of them.""I wish I could make something out of them," Eleanor said so
miserably that Jimmie was filled with compunction for having tired her
out, and hailed a passing taxi in which to whiz her home again.*       *       *       *       *

"I have found out that Uncle Peter is spending all his time with Aunt
Beulah," she wrote in her diary that evening."It is beautiful of him
to try to help her through this period of nervous collapse, and just
like him, but I don't understand why it is that he doesn't come and
tell me about it, especially since he is getting so tired.He ought to
know that I love him so dearly and deeply that I could help him even
in helping her.It isn't like him not to share his anxieties with me.Aunt Beulah is a grown up woman, and has friends and doctors and
nurses, and every one knows her need.It seems to me that he might
think that I have no one but him, and that whatever might lie heavy on
my heart I could only confide in him.Why doesn't it occur to him that I might have something to
tell him now?He needs a good deal of exercise to
keep in form.If he doesn't have a certain amount of muscular
activity his digestion is not so good.There are two little creases
between his eyes that I never remember seeing there before.I asked
him the other night when he was here with Aunt Beulah if his head
ached, and he said 'no,' but Aunt Beulah said her head ached almost
all the time.Of course, Aunt Beulah is important, and if Uncle Peter
is trying to bring her back to normality again she is important to
him, and that makes her important to me for his sake also, but nobody
in the world is worth the sacrifice of Uncle Peter."I suppose it's a part of his great beauty that he should think so
disparagingly of himself.I might not love him so well if he knew just
how dear and sweet and great his personality is.It isn't so much what
he says or does, or even the way he looks that constitutes his charm,
it's the simple power and radiance behind his slightest move.He doesn't think he is especially fine or beautiful.He doesn't know what a waste it is when he spends his strength upon
somebody who isn't as noble in character as he is,--but I know, and it
makes me wild to think of it.My
vacation is almost over, and I don't see how I could bear going back
to school without one comforting hour of him alone."I intended to write a detailed account of my vacation, but I can not.Uncle Jimmie has certainly tried to make me happy.I could have so much fun with him if I were not worried about
Uncle Peter!"Uncle David says he wants to spend my last evening with me.We are
going to dine here, and then go to the theater together.I am going to
try to tell him how I feel about things, but I am afraid he won't give
me the chance.Life is a strange mixture of things you want and can't
have, and things you can have and don't want.It seems almost disloyal
to put that down on paper about Uncle David.I do want him and love
him, but oh!--not in that way.There is only one
person in a woman's life that she can feel that way about.Why--why--why doesn't my Uncle Peter come to me?"CHAPTER XX

THE MAKINGS OF A TRIPLE WEDDING


"Just by way of formality," David said, "and not because I think any
one present"--he smiled on the five friends grouped about his dinner
table--"still takes our old resolution seriously, I should like to be
released from the anti-matrimonial pledge that I signed eight years
ago this November.I have no announcement to make as yet, but when I
do wish to make an announcement--and I trust to have the permission
granted very shortly--I want to be sure of my technical right to do
so."Jimmie exclaimed in a tone of such genuine
confusion that it raised a shout of laughter."I never signed any pledge to that effect.""We left you out of it, Old Horse, regarding you as a congenital
celibate anyway," Jimmie answered."Some day soon you will understand how much you wronged me," Peter
said with a covert glance at Beulah."I wish I could say as much," Jimmie sighed, "since this is the hour
of confession I don't mind adding that I hope I may be able to soon."Gertrude clapped her hands softly."We've the makings of a triple
wedding in our midst.Look into the blushing faces before us and hear
the voice that breathed o'er Eden echoing in our ears.This is the
most exciting moment of my life!Girls, get on your feet and drink to
the health of these about-to-be Benedicts.Up in your chairs,--one
slipper on the table.Gertrude had seen Margaret's sudden pallor and heard the convulsive
catching of her breath,--Margaret rising Undine-like out of a filmy,
pale green frock, with her eyes set a little more deeply in the
shadows than usual.Her quick instinct to the rescue was her own
salvation."On behalf of my coadjutors," he said, "I thank you.All this is
extremely premature for me, and I imagine from the confusion of the
other gentlemen present it is as much, if not more so, for them.Personally I regret exceedingly being unable to take you more fully
into my confidence.The only reason for this partial revelation is
that I wished to be sure that I was honorably released from my oath of
abstinence.You fellows say something," he concluded,
sinking abruptly into his chair."Your style always was distinctly mid-Victorian," Jimmie murmured."I've got nothing to say, except that I wish I had something to say
and that if I _do_ have something to say in the near future I'll
create a real sensation!When Miss Van Astorbilt permits David to link
her name with his in the caption under a double column cut in our
leading journals, you'll get nothing like the thrill that I expect to
create with my modest announcement.I've got a real romance up my
sleeve."There is no Van Astorbilt in mine.""The lady won't give me her permission to speak," Peter said."She
knows how proud and happy I shall be when I am able to do so.""It is better we should marry," she said."I didn't realize that when
I exacted that oath from you.It is from the intellectual type that
the brains to carry on the great work of the world must be
inherited."I'll destroy it to-night and then we may all consider
ourselves free to take any step that we see fit.It was really only as
a further protection to Eleanor that we signed it.""Eleanor will be surprised, won't she?"Three
self-conscious masculine faces met her innocent interrogation."_Eleanor_," Margaret breathed, "_Eleanor_.""I rather think she will," Jimmie chuckled irresistibly, but David
said nothing, and Peter stared unseeingly into the glass he was still
twirling on its stem."Eleanor will be taken care of just the same," Beulah said decisively."I don't think we need even go through the formality of a vote on
that.""Eleanor will be taken care of," David said softly.The Hutchinsons' limousine--old Grandmother Hutchinson had a motor
nowadays--was calling for Margaret, and she was to take the two other
girls home.David and Jimmie--such is the nature of men--were
disappointed in not being able to take Margaret and Gertrude
respectively under their accustomed protection."I wanted to talk to you, Gertrude," Jimmie said reproachfully as she
slipped away from his ingratiating hand on her arm."I thought I should take you home to-night, Margaret," David said;
"you never gave me the slip before.""The old order changeth," Gertrude replied lightly to them both, as
she preceded Margaret into the luxurious interior."It's Eleanor," Gertrude announced as the big car swung into Fifth
Avenue."Jimmie or David--or--or both are going to marry Eleanor.Didn't you
see their faces when Beulah spoke of her?""David wants to marry Eleanor," Margaret said quietly."I've known it
all winter--without realizing what it was I knew.""Well, who is Jimmy going to marry then?""Who is Peter going to marry for that matter?"it doesn't make any difference,--we're losing them just the same.""No matter what combinations come
about, we shall still have an indestructible friendship.""Indestructible friendship--shucks," Gertrude cried."The boys are
going to be married--married--married!Marriage is the one thing that
indestructible friendships don't survive--except as ghosts.""It should be Peter who is going to marry Eleanor," Margaret said."It's Peter who has always loved her best."As a friend," Beulah said, "as her dearest friend.""Not as a friend," Margaret answered softly, "she loves him."I believe it," Gertrude said.Of
course, it must be Peter who is going to marry her.""If it isn't we've succeeded in working out a rather tragic
experiment," Margaret said, "haven't we?""Life is a tragic experiment for any woman," Gertrude said
sententiously."Peter doesn't intend to marry Eleanor," Beulah persisted."Do you happen to know who he is going to marry?""Yes, I do know, but I--I can't tell you yet.""Whoever it is, it's a mistake," Margaret said."It's our little
Eleanor he wants.I suppose he doesn't realize it himself yet, and
when he does it will be too late.He's probably gone and tied himself
up with somebody entirely unsuitable, hasn't he, Beulah?""I don't know," Beulah said; "perhaps he has.I hadn't thought of it
that way.""It's the way to think of it, I know."Margaret's eyes filled with
sudden tears."But whatever he's done it's past mending now.There'll
be no question of Peter's backing out of a bargain--bad or good, and
our poor little kiddie's got to suffer.""Beulah took it hard," Gertrude commented, as they turned up-town
again after dropping their friend at her door.The two girls were
spending the night together at Margaret's.I think besides being devoted to Eleanor, she feels terrifically
responsible for her.I can't pretend to think of anything else,--who--who--who--are
our boys going to marry?""I don't know, Gertrude.""I always thought that you and David--"

Margaret met her eyes bravely but she did not answer the implicit
question."I always thought that you and Jimmie--" she said presently.Gertrude, you would have been so good for him."it's all over now," Gertrude said, "but I didn't know that a
living soul suspected me."Gertrude whispered as they clung to each
other.I've never seen any one else whom I thought that of.I--I was so
used to him.""That's the rub," Gertrude said, "we're so used to them.They're
so--so preposterously necessary to us."Late that night clasped in each other's arms they admitted the extent
of their desolation.Life had been robbed of a magic,--a mystery.The
solid friendship of years of mutual trust and understanding was the
background of so much lovely folly, so many unrealized possibilities,
so many nebulous desires and dreams that the sudden dissolution of
their circle was an unthinkable calamity."We ought to have put out our hands and taken them if we wanted them,"
Gertrude said, out of the darkness.They need to be firmly
turned in the right direction instead of being given their heads."I wouldn't pay that price for love," Margaret said.By
the time I had made it happen I wouldn't want it.""That's my trouble too," Gertrude said.Then she turned over on her
pillow and sobbed helplessly."Jimmie had such ducky little curls,"
she explained incoherently."I do this sometimes when I think of them.Margaret put out a hand to her; but long after Gertrude's breath began
to rise and fall regularly, she lay staring wide-eyed into the
darkness.CHAPTER XXI

ELEANOR HEARS THE NEWS


"Dear Uncle Jimmie:

"I said I would write you, but now that I have taken this hour in
which to do it, I find it is a very, very hard letter that I have got
to write.In the first place I can't believe that the things you said
to me that night were real, or that you were awake and in the world of
realities when you said them.I felt as if we were both dreaming; that
you were talking as a man does sometimes in delirium when he believes
the woman he loves to be by his side, and I was listening the same
way.It made me very happy, as dreams sometimes do.I can't help
feeling that your idea of me is a dream idea, and the pain that you
said this kind of a letter would give you will be merely dream pain.It is a shock to wake up in the morning and find that all the lovely
ways we felt, and delicately beautiful things we had, were only dream
things that we wouldn't even understand if we were thoroughly awake."In the second place, you can't want to marry your little niecelet,
the funny little 'kiddo,' that used to burn her fingers and the
beefsteak over that old studio gas stove.We had such lovely kinds of
make-believe together.That's what our association always ought to
mean to us,--just chumship, and wonderful and preposterous _pretends_.I couldn't think of myself being married to you any more than I could
Jack the giant killer, or Robinson Crusoe.You're my truly best and
dearest childhood's playmate, and that is a great deal to be, Uncle
Jimmie.I don't think a little girl ever grows up quite _whole_ unless
she has somewhere, somehow, what I had in you.You wouldn't want to
marry Alice in Wonderland, now would you?There are some kinds of
playmates that can't marry each other.I think that you and I are that
kind, Uncle Jimmie."My dear, my dear, don't let this hurt you.How can it hurt you, when
I am only your little adopted foster child that you have helped
support and comfort and make a beautiful, glad life for?I love you so
much,--you are so precious to me that you _must_ wake up out of this
distorted, though lovely dream that I was present at!Nobody can break our hearts if we are strong
enough to withhold them.Nobody can hurt us too much if we can find
the way to be our bravest all the time.I know that what you are
feeling now is not real.I can't tell you how I know, but I do know
the difference.They could be pulled up
without too terrible a havoc."Uncle Jimmie, dear, believe me, believe me.I said this would be a
hard letter to write, and it has been.If you could see my poor
inkstained, weeping face, you would realize that I am only your funny
little Eleanor after all, and not to be taken seriously at all.I hope
you will come up for my graduation.When you see me with all the other
lumps and frumps that are here, you will know that I am not worth
considering except as a kind of human joke."Good-by, dear, my dear, and God bless you.*       *       *       *       *

It was less than a week after this letter to Jimmie that Margaret
spending a week-end in a town in Connecticut adjoining that in which
Eleanor's school was located, telephoned Eleanor to join her
overnight at the inn where she was staying.She had really planned the
entire expedition for the purpose of seeing Eleanor and preparing her
for the revelations that were in store for her, though she was
ostensibly meeting a motoring party, with which she was going on into
the Berkshires.She started in abruptly, as was her way, over the salad and cheese in
the low studded Arts and Crafts dining-room of the fashionable road
house, contrived to look as self-conscious as a pretty woman in new
sporting clothes."Your Uncle David and your Uncle Jimmie are going to be married," she
told her."No, I didn't," Eleanor said faintly, but she grew suddenly very
white.David gave a dinner party one night last
week in his studio, and announced his intentions, but we don't know
the name of the lady yet, and we can't guess it.He says it is not a
society girl.""Who do you think it is, Eleanor?""I--I can't think, Aunt Margaret.""We don't know who Jimmie is marrying either.The facts were merely
insinuated, but he said we should have the shock of our lives when we
knew.""Perhaps he has changed his mind by now," Eleanor said.Don't you think it might be that they both just
thought they were going to marry somebody--that really doesn't want to
marry them?It might be all a mistake, you know.""I don't think it's a mistake.Margaret found the rest of her story harder to tell than she had
anticipated.Eleanor, wrapped in the formidable aloofness of the
sensitive young, was already suffering from the tale she had come to
tell,--why, it was not so easy to determine.It might be merely from
the pang of being shut out from confidences that she felt should have
been shared with her at once.She waited until they were both ready for bed (their rooms were
connecting)--Eleanor in the straight folds of her white dimity
nightgown, and her two golden braids making a picture that lingered in
Margaret's memory for many years."It would have been easier to tell
her in her street clothes," she thought."I wish her profile were not
so perfect, or her eyes were shallower.How can I hurt such a lovely
thing?""Are the ten Hutchinsons all right?""The ten Hutchinsons are very much all right.They like me better now
that I have grown a nice hard Hutchinson shell that doesn't show my
feelings through.Haven't you noticed how much more like other people
I've grown, Eleanor?""You've grown nicer, and dearer and sweeter, but I don't think you're
very much like anybody else, Aunt Margaret.""I have though,--every one notices it.You haven't asked me anything
about Peter yet," she added suddenly.The lovely color glowed in Eleanor's cheeks for an instant."I haven't heard from him for a
long time.""Yes, he's well," Margaret said."He's looking better than he was for
a while.He had some news to tell us too, Eleanor."He
said that he hadn't the consent of the lady to mention her name yet.We're as much puzzled about him as we are about the other two.""It's Aunt Beulah," Eleanor said.She sat upright on the edge of the bed and stared straight ahead of
her.Margaret watched the light and life and youth die out of the face
and a pitiful ashen pallor overspread it."I don't think it's Beulah," Margaret said."Beulah knows who it is,
but I never thought of it's being Beulah herself.""If she knows--then she's the one.He wouldn't have told her first if
she hadn't been.""Don't let it hurt you too much, dear.Gertrude--and me, too, Eleanor.It's--it's pain to us all.""Do you mean--Uncle David, Aunt Margaret?""Yes, dear," Margaret smiled at her bravely."And does Aunt Gertrude care about Uncle Jimmie?""She has for a good many years, I think.""I didn't know that," she said.She
pushed Margaret's arm away from her gently, but her breath came hard."Don't touch me," she cried, "I can't bear it.You might not want
to--if you knew.As Margaret closed the door gently between them, she saw Eleanor throw
her head back, and push the back of her hand hard against her mouth,
as if to stifle the rising cry of her anguish.*       *       *       *       *

The next morning Eleanor was gone.Margaret had listened for hours in
the night but had heard not so much as the rustle of a garment from
the room beyond.Toward morning she had fallen into the sleep of
exhaustion.It was then that the stricken child had made her escape."Miss Hamlin had found that she must take the early train," the clerk
said, "and left this note for Miss Hutchinson."It was like Eleanor to
do things decently and in order.*       *       *       *       *

"Dear Aunt Margaret," her letter ran."My grandmother used to say that
some people were trouble breeders.On thinking it over I am afraid
that is just about what I am,--a trouble breeder."I've been a worry and bother and care to you all since the beginning,
and I have repaid all your kindness by bringing trouble upon you.I don't think I have any right to
tell you exactly in this letter.I can only pray that it will be found
to be all a mistake, and come out right in the end.Surely such
beautiful people as you and Uncle David can find the way to each
other, and can help Uncle Jimmie and Aunt Gertrude, who are a little
blinder about life.Surely, when the stumbling block is out of the
way, you four will walk together beautifully.Please try, Aunt
Margaret, to make things as right as if I had never helped them to go
wrong.I was so young, I didn't know how to manage.I shall never be
that kind of young again."You know the other reason why I am going.Please do not let any one
else know.If the others could think I had met with some accident,
don't you think that would be the wisest way?I would like to arrange
it so they wouldn't try to find me at all, but would just mourn for me
naturally for a little while.I thought of sticking my old cap in the
river, but I was afraid that would be too hard for you.There won't be
any use in trying to find me.I couldn't
ever bear seeing one of your faces again.Don't let Uncle Peter _know_, please, Aunt Margaret.I don't want him
to know,--I don't want to hurt him, and I don't want him to know.Good-by, my dears, my dearests.I
have taken all of my allowance money.CHAPTER XXII

THE SEARCH


Eleanor had not bought a ticket at the station, Margaret ascertained,
but the ticket agent had tried to persuade her to.She had thanked him
and told him that she preferred to buy it of the conductor.He was a
lank, saturnine individual and had been seriously smitten with
Eleanor's charms, it appeared, and the extreme solicitousness of his
attitude at the suggestion of any mystery connected with her departure
made Margaret realize the caution with which it would be politic to
proceed.She had very little hope of finding Eleanor back at the
school, but it was still rather a shock when she telephoned the school
office and found that there was no news of her there.She concocted a
somewhat lame story to account for Eleanor's absence and promised the
authorities that she would be sent back to them within the week,--a
promise she was subsequently obliged to acknowledge that she could not
keep.Then she fled to New York to break the disastrous news to the
others.She told Gertrude the truth and showed her the pitiful letter Eleanor
had left behind her, and together they wept over it.Also together,
they faced David and Jimmie."She went away," Margaret told them, "both because she felt she was
hurting those that she loved and because she herself was hurt.""I mean--that she belonged body and soul to Peter and to nobody else,"
Margaret answered deliberately."If that is true," he said, "then I am largely responsible for her
going.""It is I who am responsible," Jimmie groaned aloud."I asked her to
marry me and she refused me.""I asked her to marry me and didn't give her the chance to refuse,"
David said; "it is that she is running away from.""It was Peter's engagement that was the last straw," Margaret said."The poor baby withered and shrank like a flower in the blast when I
told her that.""The damned hound--" Jimmie said feelingly and without apology."Eleanor says it's Beulah, and the more I think of it the more I think
that she's probably right.""That would be a nice mess, wouldn't it?""Remember how frank we were with her about his probable lack of
judgment, Margaret?I don't covet the sweet job of breaking it to
either one of them."Nevertheless she assisted Margaret to break it to them both late that
same afternoon at Beulah's apartment."I'll find her," Peter said briefly.And in response to the halting
explanation of her disappearance that Margaret and Gertrude had done
their best to try to make plausible, despite its elliptical nature, he
only said, "I don't see that it makes any difference why she's gone.She's gone, that's the thing that's important.No matter how hard we
try we can't really figure out her reason till we find her.""Are you sure it's going to be so easy?"She's a pretty determined little person when she
makes up her mind.Eleanor's threats are to be taken seriously."I'll find her if she's anywhere in the world," Peter said."I'll find
her and bring her back.""I believe that you will," she said."Find out the reason that she
went away, too, Peter."Beulah pulled Gertrude aside."She had some one else
on her mind, hadn't she?""She had something else on her mind," Gertrude answered gravely, "but
she had Peter on her mind, too.""She didn't--she couldn't have known about us--Peter and me.We--we
haven't told any one."It's
just one of God's most satirical mix-ups.""I was to blame," Beulah said slowly."I don't believe in shifting
responsibility.I got her here in the first place and I've been
instrumental in guiding her life ever since.Now, I've sacrificed her
to my own happiness.""It isn't so simple as that," Gertrude said; "the things we start
going soon pass out of our hands.Somebody a good deal higher up has
been directing Eleanor's affairs for a long time,--and ours too, for
that matter.""Don't worry, Beulah," Peter said, making his way to her side from the
other corner of the room where he had been talking to Margaret."You
mustn't let this worry you.We've all got to be--soldiers now,--but
we'll soon have her back again, I promise you.""And I promise you," Beulah said chokingly, "that if you'll get her
back again, I--I will be a soldier."*       *       *       *       *

Peter began by visiting the business schools in New York and finding
out the names of the pupils registered there.Eleanor had clung firmly
to her idea of becoming an editorial stenographer in some magazine
office, no matter how hard he had worked to dissuade her.He felt
almost certain she would follow out that purpose now.There was a fund
in her name started some years before for the defraying of her college
expenses.She would use that, he argued, to get herself started, even
though she felt constrained to pay it back later on.He worked on this
theory for some time, even making a trip to Boston in search for her
in the stenography classes there, but nothing came of it.Among Eleanor's effects sent on from the school was a little red
address book containing the names and addresses of many of her former
schoolmates at Harmon.Peter wrote all the girls he remembered hearing
her speak affectionately of, but not one of them was able to give him
any news of her.He wrote to Colhassett to Albertina's aunt, who had
served in the capacity of housekeeper to Eleanor's grandfather in his
last days, and got in reply a pious letter from Albertina herself, who
intimated that she had always suspected that Eleanor would come to
some bad end, and that now she was highly soothed and gratified by the
apparent fulfillment of her sinister prognostications.Later he tried private detectives, and, not content with their
efforts, he followed them over the ground that they covered, searching
through boarding houses, and public classes of all kinds; canvassing
the editorial offices of the various magazines Eleanor had admired in
the hope of discovering that she had applied for some small position
there; following every clue that his imagination, and the acumen of
the professionals in his service, could supply;--but his patient
search was unrewarded.Eleanor had apparently vanished from the
surface of the earth.The quest which had seemed to him so simple a
matter when he first undertook it, now began to assume terrible and
abortive proportions.It was unthinkable that one little slip of a
girl untraveled and inexperienced should be able permanently to elude
six determined and worldly adult New Yorkers, who were prepared to tax
their resources to the utmost in the effort to find her,--but the fact
remained that she was missing and continued to be missing, and the
cruel month went by and brought them no news of her.Apart from the emotions
that had been precipitated by her developing charms, they loved her
dearly as the child they had taken to their hearts and bestowed all
their young enthusiasm and energy and tenderness upon.She was the
living clay, as Gertrude had said so many years before, that they had
molded as nearly as possible to their hearts' desire.They loved her
for herself, but one and all they loved her for what they had made of
her--an exquisite, lovely young creature, at ease in a world that
might so easily have crushed her utterly if they had not intervened
for her.They kept up the search unremittingly, following false leads and
meeting with heartbreaking discouragements and disappointments.Only
Margaret had any sense of peace about her."I'm sure she's all right," she said; "I feel it.It's hard having her
gone, but I'm not afraid for her.She'll work it out better than we
could help her to.It's a beautiful thing to be young and strong and
free, and she'll get the beauty out of it.""I think perhaps you're right, Margaret," David said.It's the bread and butter end of the problem that worries
me.""He'll provide for our ewe lamb, I'm
sure.""You speak as if you had it on direct authority.""I think perhaps I have," she said gravely.Jimmie and Gertrude grew closer together as the weeks passed, and the
strain of their fruitless quest continued.One day Jimmie showed her
the letter that Eleanor had written him.he said, as Gertrude returned it to him, smiling
through her tears."She's a darling," Gertrude said fervently."Did she hurt you so much,
Jimmie dear?""I wanted her," Jimmie answered slowly, "but I think it was because I
thought she was mine,--that I could make her mine.When I found she
was Peter's,--had been Peter's all the time, the thought somehow cured
me.I made it up out of the stuff that
dreams are made of.God knows I love her, but--but that personal thing
has gone out of it.She's my little lost child,--or my sister.A man
wants his own to be his own, Gertrude.""My--my real trouble is that I'm at sea again.I thought that I
cared,--that I was anchored for good.It's the drifting that plays the
deuce with me.If the thought of that sweet child and the grief at her
loss can't hold me, what can?"I don't know," Gertrude laughed.You've always been on to me, Gertrude, too much so
to have any respect for me, I guess.You've got your work," he waved
his arm at the huge cast under the shadow of which they were sitting,
"and all this.You can put all your human longings into it.I'm a poor
rudderless creature without any hope or direction.""You don't know it," he said, with an effort to conceal
the fact that his shoulders were shaking, "but you see before you a
human soul in the actual process of dissolution."Gertrude crossed her studio floor to kneel down beside him.She drew
the boyish head, rumpled into an irresistible state of curliness, to
her breast."Put it here where it belongs," she said softly."I snitched him," Gertrude confided to Margaret some days later,--her
whole being radiant and transfigured with happiness.CHAPTER XXIII

THE YOUNG NURSE


The local hospital of the village of Harmonville, which was ten miles
from Harmon proper, where the famous boarding-school for young ladies
was located, presented an aspect so far from institutional that but
for the sign board tacked modestly to an elm tree just beyond the
break in the hedge that constituted the main entrance, the gracious,
old colonial structure might have been taken for the private residence
for which it had served so many years.It was a crisp day in late September, and a pale yellow sun was spread
thin over the carpet of yellow leaves with which the wide lawn was
covered.In the upper corridor of the west wing, grouped about the
window-seat with their embroidery or knitting, the young nurses were
talking together in low tones during the hour of the patients'
siestas.The two graduates, dark-eyed efficient girls, with skilled
delicate fingers taking precise stitches in the needlework before
them, were in full uniform, but the younger girls clustered about
them, beginners for the most part, but a few months in training, were
dressed in the simple blue print, and little white caps and aprons, of
the probationary period.A light breeze blew in at
the window and stirred a straying lock or two that escaped the
starched band of a confining cap.Outside the stinging whistle of the
insect world was interrupted now and then by the cough of a passing
motor.From the doors opening on the corridor an occasional restless
moan indicated the inability of some sufferer to take his dose of
oblivion according to schedule.Presently a bell tinkled a summons to
the patient in the first room on the right--a gentle little old lady
who had just had her appendix removed."Will you take that, Miss Hamlin?"the nurse in charge of the case
asked the tallest and fairest of the young assistants.Eleanor, demure in cap and kerchief as the most ravishing
of young Priscillas, rose obediently at the request."May I read to
her a little if she wants me to?""Yes, if you keep the door closed.I think most of the others are
sleeping."The little old lady who had just had her appendix out, smiled weakly
up at Eleanor."I hoped 'twould be you," she said, "and then after I'd rung I lay in
fear and trembling lest one o' them young flipperti-gibbets should
come, and get me all worked up while she was trying to shift me.I
want to be turned the least little mite on my left side."Eleanor asked, as she made the adjustment."I dunno whether that's better, or whether it just seems better to me,
because 'twas you that fixed me," the little old lady said."You
certainly have got a soothin' and comfortin' way with you.""I used to take care of my grandmother years ago, and the more
hospital work I do, the more it comes back to me,--and the better I
remember the things that she liked to have done for her.""There's nobody like your own kith and kin," the little old lady
sighed.That other nurse--that black
haired one--she said you was an orphan, alone in the world.Well, I
pity a young girl alone in the world.""It's all right to be alone in the world--if you just keep busy
enough," Eleanor said."But you mustn't talk any more.I'm going to
give you your medicine and then sit here and read to you."*       *       *       *       *

On the morning of her flight from the inn, after a night spent staring
motionless into the darkness, Eleanor took the train to the town some
dozen miles beyond Harmonville, where her old friend Bertha Stephens
lived.To "Stevie," to whom the duplicity of Maggie Lou had served to
draw her very close in the ensuing year, she told a part of her story.Stephens, whose husband was on
the board of directors of the Harmonville hospital, that Eleanor had
been admitted there.She had resolutely put all her old life behind
her.The plan to take up a course in stenography and enter an
editorial office was to have been, as a matter of course, a part of
her life closely associated with Peter.Losing him, there was nothing
left of her dream of high adventure and conquest.There was merely the
hurt desire to hide herself where she need never trouble him again,
and where she could be independent and useful.Having no idea of her
own value to her guardians, or the integral tenderness in which she
was held, she sincerely believed that her disappearance must have
relieved them of much chagrin and embarrassment.She had the
temperament that finds a virtue in the day's work, and a balm in its
mere iterative quality.Her sympathy and intelligence made her a good
nurse and her adaptability, combined with her loveliness, a general
favorite.She spent her days off at the Stephens' home.Bertha Stephens had been
the one girl that Peter had failed to write to, when he began to
circulate his letters of inquiry.Her name had been set down in the
little red book, but he remembered the trouble that Maggie Lou had
precipitated, and arrived at the conclusion that the intimacy existing
between Eleanor and Bertha had not survived it.Except that Carlo
Stephens persisted in trying to make love to her, and Mrs.Stephens
covertly encouraged his doing so, Eleanor found the Stephens' home a
very comforting haven.Bertha had developed into a full breasted,
motherly looking girl, passionately interested in all vicarious
love-affairs, though quickly intimidated at the thought of having any
of her own.She was devoted to Eleanor, and mothered her clumsily.It was still to her diary that Eleanor turned for the relief and
solace of self-expression.*       *       *       *       *

"It is five months to-day," she wrote, "since I came to the hospital.I like it, but I feel like the little old
woman on the King's Highway.I doubt more every minute if this can be
I. Sometimes I wonder what 'being I' consists of, anyway.I used to
feel as if I were divided up into six parts as separate as
protoplasmic cells, and that each one was looked out for by a
different cooperative parent.I thought that I would truly be I when I
got them all together, and looked out for them myself, but I find I am
no more of an entity than I ever was.The puzzling question of 'what
am I?'still persists, and I am farther away from the right answer
than ever.Would a sound be a sound if there were no one to hear it?If the waves of vibration struck no human ear, would the sound be in
existence at all?This is the problem propounded by one of the nurses
yesterday."How much of us lives when we are entirely shut out of the
consciousness of those whom we love?If there is no one to _realize_
us day by day,--if all that love has made of us is taken away, what is
left?I look in the glass, and see
the same face,--Eleanor Hamlin, almost nineteen, with the same bow
shaped eyebrows, and the same double ridge leading up from her nose to
her mouth, making her look still very babyish.I pinch myself, and
find that it hurts just the same as it used to six months ago, but
there the resemblance to what I used to be, stops.I'm a young nurse
now in hospital training, and very good at it, too, if I do say it as
shouldn't; but that's all I am.Otherwise, I'm not anybody _to_
anybody,--except a figure of romance to good old Stevie, who doesn't
count in this kind of reckoning.I take naturally to nursing they tell
me.A nurse is a kind of maternal automaton.I'm glad I'm that, but
there used to be a lot more of me than that.There ought to be some
heart and brain and soul left over, but there doesn't seem to be.Perhaps I am like the Princess in the fairy story whose heart was an
auk's egg.Nobody had power to make her feel unless they reached it
and squeezed it."I feel sometimes as if I were dead.I wish I could know whether Uncle
Peter and Aunt Beulah were married yet.There is a woman in this hospital whose suitor married some one else,
and she has nervous prostration, and melancholia.All she does all day
is to moan and wring her hands and call out his name.They seem to think that it is disgraceful to
love a man so much that your whole life stops as soon as he goes out
of it.What of Juliet and Ophelia and Francesca de Rimini?They loved
so they could not tear their love out of their hearts without
lacerating them forever.There is that kind of love in the
world,--bigger than life itself.All the big tragedies of literature
were made from it,--why haven't people more sympathy for it?Why isn't
there more dignity about it in the eyes of the world?"It is very unlucky to love, and to lose that which you cherish, but
it is unluckier still never to know the meaning of love, or to find
'Him whom your soul loveth.'I try to be kind to that poor forsaken
woman.I am sorry for his sake that she calls out his name, but she
seems to be in such torture of mind and body that she is unable to
help it."They are trying to cut down expenses here, so they have no regular
cook, the housekeeper and her helper are supposed to do it all.I said
I would make the desserts, so now I have got to go down-stairs and
make some fruit gelatin.It is best that I should not write any more
to-day, anyway."*       *       *       *       *

Later, after the Thanksgiving holiday, she wrote:

                  *       *       *       *       *

"I saw a little boy butchered to-day, and I shall never forget it.It
is wicked to speak of Doctor Blake's clean cut work as butchery, but
when you actually see a child's leg severed from its body, what else
can you call it?"The reason that I am able to go through operations without fainting
or crying is just this: _other people do_.The first time I stood by
the operating table to pass the sterilized instruments to the
assisting nurse, and saw the half naked doctors hung in rubber
standing there preparing to carve their way through the naked flesh of
the unconscious creature before them, I felt the kind of pang pass
through my heart that seems to kill as it comes.I thought I died, or
was dying,--and then I looked up and saw that every one else was ready
for their work.So I drew a deep breath and became ready too.I don't
think there is anything in the world too hard to do if you look at it
that way."The little boy loved me and I loved him.We had hoped against hope
that we would be able to save his poor little leg, but it had to go.I
held his hand while they gave him the chloroform.At his head sat
Doctor Hathaway with his Christlike face, draped in the robe of the
anesthetist.'Take long breaths, Benny,' I said, and he breathed in
bravely.To-morrow, when he is really out of the
ether, I have got to tell him what was done to him.Something happened
to me while that operation was going on.I think
the spirit of the one who was his mother passed into me, and I knew
what it would be like to be the mother of a son.Benny was not without
what his mother would have felt for him if she had been at his side.I can't explain it, but that is what I felt."To-night it is as black as ink outside.I feel as
if there should be no stars.If there were, there might be some
strange little bit of comfort in them that I could cling to.I do not
want any comfort from outside to shine upon me to-night.I have got to
draw all my strength from a source within, and I feel it welling up
within me even now."I wonder if I have been selfish to leave the people I love so long
without any word of me.I think Aunt Gertrude and Aunt Beulah and Aunt
Margaret all had a mother feeling for me.I am remembering to-night
how anxious they used to be for me to have warm clothing, and to keep
my feet dry, and not to work too hard at school.All those things that
I took as a matter of course, I realize now were very significant and
beautiful.If I had a child and did not know to-night where it would
lie down to sleep, or on what pillow it would put its head, I know my
own rest would be troubled.I wonder if I have caused any one of my
dear mothers to feel like that.If I have, it has been very wicked and
cruel of me."CHAPTER XXIV

CHRISTMAS AGAIN


The ten Hutchinsons having left the library entirely alone in the hour
before dinner, David and Margaret had appropriated it and were sitting
companionably together on the big couch drawn up before the fireplace,
where a log was trying to consume itself unscientifically head first."I would stay to dinner if urged," David suggested."You stay," Margaret agreed laconically.She moved away from him, relaxing rather limply in the corner of the
couch, with a hand dangling over the farther edge of it."You're an inconsistent being," David said."You buoy all the rest of
us up with your faith in the well-being of our child, and then you
pine yourself sick over her absence."We always had such a beautiful time on
Christmas.It isn't like
Christmas at all with her gone from us.""Do you remember how crazy she was over the ivory set?"David's eyes kindled at the
reminiscence.Margaret drew her feet up on the couch suddenly, and clasped her hands
about her knees."I haven't seen you do that for years," he said."I was just wondering--" but she stopped
herself suddenly.David was watching her narrowly, and perceiving it,
she flushed."This is not my idea of an interesting conversation," she said; "it's
getting too personal.""I can remember the time when you told me that you didn't find things
interesting unless they were personal.'I like things very personal,'
you said--in those words.""The chill wind of the world, I guess; the most personal part of me is
frozen stiff.""I never saw a warmer creature in my life," David protested."On that
same occasion you said that being a woman was about like being a field
of clover in an insectless world.You don't feel that way nowadays,
surely,--at the rate the insects have been buzzing around you this
winter.I've counted at least seven, three bees, one or two beetles, a
butterfly and a worm.""I didn't know you paid that much attention to my poor affairs."If you hadn't put your foot down firmly on the worm, I
had every intention of doing so.""On that occasion to which you refer I remember I also said that I had
a queer hunch about Eleanor.""Margaret, are you deliberately changing the subject?""Then I shall bring the butterfly up later.""I said," Margaret ignored his interruption, "that I had the feeling
that she was going to be a storm center and bring some kind of queer
trouble upon us.""I'm not so sure that's the way to put it," David said gravely."We
brought queer trouble on her.""She gave my vanity the worst blow it has ever had in its life," David
corrected her."Look here, Margaret, I want you to know the truth
about that.I--I stumbled into that, you know.She was so sweet, and
before I knew it I had--I found myself in the attitude of making love
to her.Well, there was nothing to do but go through with it.I felt like Pygmalion--but it was all potential,
unrealized--and ass that I was, I assumed that she would have no other
idea in the matter.I was going to marry her because I--I had started
things going, you know.I had no choice even if I had wanted one.It
never occurred to me that she might have a choice, and so I went on
trying to make things easy for her, and getting them more tangled at
every turn."With characteristic idiocy I was
keeping out of the picture until the time was ripe.She really ran
away to get away from the situation I created and she was quite right
too.If I weren't haunted by these continual pictures of our offspring
in the bread line, I should be rather glad than otherwise that she's
shaken us all till we get our breath back.Poor Peter is the one who
is smashed, though."You wouldn't smile if you were engaged to Beulah.""Beulah has her ring, but I notice she doesn't wear it often.""Jimmie and Gertrude seem happy.""That leaves only us two," David suggested."Margaret, dear, do you
think the time will ever come when I shall get you back again?"Margaret turned a little pale, but she met his look steadily."The answer to that is 'yes,' as you very well know.Time was when we
were very close--you and I, then somehow we lost the way to each
other.I'm beginning to realize that it hasn't been the same world
since and isn't likely to be unless you come back to me.""It was I; but it was you who put the bars up and have kept them
there.""Was I to let the bars down and wait at the gate?"It should be that way between us, Margaret, shouldn't
it?""I don't know," Margaret said, "I don't know."She flashed a sudden
odd look at him."If--when I put the bars down, I shall run for my
life."Warning is all I want," David said contentedly.He could barely reach
her hand across the intervening expanse of leather couch, but he
accomplished it,--he was too wise to move closer to her."You're a
lovely, lovely being," he said reverently."God grant I may reach you
and hold you.""To tell you the truth, she spoke of it the other day.I told her the
Eleanor story, and that rather brought her to her senses.She wouldn't
have liked that, you know; but now all the eligible buds are plucked,
and she wants me to settle down.""Does she think I'm a settling kind of person?""She wouldn't if she knew the way you go to my head," David murmured."Oh, she thinks that you'll do."Maybe I'd like them better considered as connections of yours,"
Margaret said abstractedly.David lifted the warm little finger to his lips and kissed it
swiftly.he asked, as she slipped away from him and
stood poised in the doorway."I'm going to put on something appropriate to the occasion," she
answered.When she came back to him she was wearing the most delicate and
cobwebby of muslins with a design of pale purple passion flowers
trellised all over it, and she gave him no chance for a moment alone
with her all the rest of the evening.Sometime later she showed him Eleanor's parting letter, and he was
profoundly touched by the pathetic little document.As the holidays approached Eleanor's absence became an almost
unendurable distress to them all.The annual Christmas dinner party, a
function that had never been omitted since the acquisition of David's
studio, was decided on conditionally, given up, and again decided on."We do want to see one another on Christmas day,--we've got presents
for one another, and Eleanor would hate it if she thought that her
going away had settled that big a cloud on us.She slipped out of our
lives in order to bring us closer together.We'll get closer together
for her sake," Margaret decided.But the ordeal of the dinner itself was almost more than they had
reckoned on.Every detail of traditional ceremony was observed even to
the mound of presents marked with each name piled on the same spot on
the couch, to be opened with the serving of the coffee."I got something for Eleanor," Jimmie remarked shamefacedly as he
added his contributions to the collection."Thought we could keep it
for her, or throw it into the waste-basket or something."I guess everybody else got her something, too," Margaret said."Of
course we will keep them for her.I got her a little French party
coat.It will be just as good next year as this.Anyhow as Jimmie
says, I had to get it.""I got her slipper buckles," Gertrude admitted."I got her the Temple _Shakespeare_," Beulah added."She was always
carrying around those big volumes.""You're looking better, Beulah," Margaret said."Jimmie says I'm looking more human.I guess perhaps that's it,--I'm
feeling more--human.I needed humanizing--even at the expense of
some--some heartbreak," she said bravely.Margaret crossed the room to take a seat on Beulah's chair-arm, and
slipped an arm around her."You're all right if you know that," she whispered softly."I thought I was going to bring you Eleanor herself," Peter said."I
got on the trail of a girl working in a candy shop out in Yonkers.My
faithful sleuth was sure it was Eleanor and I was ass enough to
believe he knew what he was talking about.When I got out there I
found a strawberry blonde with gold teeth.""Gosh, you don't think she's doing anything like that," Jimmie
exclaimed."I don't know," Peter said miserably.He was looking ill and unlike
himself.His deep set gray eyes were sunken far in his head, his brow
was too white, and the skin drawn too tightly over his jaws."As a
de-tec-i-tive, I'm afraid I'm a failure.""We're all failures for that matter," David said.Eleanor's empty place, set with the liqueur glass she always drank her
thimbleful of champagne in, and the throne chair from the drawing-room
in which she presided over the feasts given in her honor, was almost
too much for them.Peter shaded
his eyes with his hand, and Gertrude and Jimmie groped for each
other's hands under the shelter of the table-cloth."This--this won't do," David said.He turned to Beulah on his left,
sitting immovable, with her eyes staring unseeingly into the
centerpiece of holly and mistletoe arranged by Alphonse so lovingly."We must either turn this into a kind of a wake, and kneel as we
feast, or we must try to rise above it somehow.""I don't see why," Jimmie argued."I'm in favor of each man howling
informally as he listeth.""Let's drink her health anyhow," David insisted."I cut out the
Sauterne and the claret, so we could begin on the wine at once in this
contingency.Here's to our beloved and dear absent daughter.""Long may she wave," Jimmie cried, stumbling to his feet an instant
after the others.While they were still standing with their glasses uplifted, the bell
rang."Don't let anybody in, Alphonse," David admonished him.They all turned in the direction of the hall, but there was no sound
of parley at the front door.Eleanor had put a warning finger to her
lips, as Alphonse opened it to find her standing there.She stripped
off her hat and her coat as she passed through the drawing-room, and
stood in her little blue cloth traveling dress between the portieres
that separated it from the dining-room.The six stood transfixed at
the sight of her, not believing the vision of their eyes."You're drinking my health," she cried, as she stretched out her arms
to them.my dears, and my dearests, will you forgive me for
running away from you?"CHAPTER XXV

THE LOVER


They left her alone with Peter in the drawing room in the interval
before the coffee, seeing that he had barely spoken to her though his
eyes had not left her face since the moment of her spectacular
appearance between the portieres."I'm not going to marry you, Peter," Beulah whispered, as she slipped
by him to the door, "don't think of me.But Peter was almost past coherent thought or speech as they stood
facing each other on the hearth-rug,--Eleanor's little head up and her
breath coming lightly between her sweet, parted lips."How could you, dear--how could
you,--how could you?""I'm back all safe, now, Uncle Peter."I'm sorry I made you all that trouble," Eleanor said, "but I thought
it would be the best thing to do.""Tell me why," Peter said, "tell me why, I've suffered so
much--wondering--wondering.""I thought it was only I who did the
suffering."She moved a step nearer to him, and Peter gripped her hard by the
shoulders.Then his lips met hers dumbly,
beseechingly.*       *       *       *       *

"It was all a mistake,--my going away," she wrote some days after."I
ought to have stayed at the school, and graduated, and then come down
to New York, and faced things.I have my lesson now about facing
things.If any other crisis comes into my life, I hope I shall be as
strong as Dante was, when he'showed himself more furnished with
breath than he was,' and said, 'Go on, for I am strong and resolute.'I think we always have more strength than we understand ourselves to
have."I am so wonderfully happy about Uncle David and Aunt Margaret, and I
know Uncle Jimmie needs Aunt Gertrude and has always needed her.Did
my going away help those things to their fruition?"I can not bear to think of Aunt Beulah, but I know that I must bear
to think of her, and face the pain of having hurt her as I must face
every other thing that comes into my life from this hour.I would give
her back Peter, if I could,--but I can not.He is mine, and I am his,
and we have been that way from the beginning.I have thought of him
always as stronger and wiser than any one in the world, but I don't
think he is.He has suffered and stumbled along, trying blindly to do
right, hurting Aunt Beulah and mixing up his life like any man, just
the way Uncle Jimmie and Uncle David did."Don't men know who it is they love?They seem so often to be
struggling hungrily after the wrong thing, trying to get, or to make
themselves take, some woman that they do not really want.When women
love it is not like that with them.I think I have loved Peter from the first minute I
saw him, so beautiful and dear and sweet, with that _anxious_ look in
his eyes,--that look of consideration for the other person that is
always so much a part of him.He had it the first night I saw him,
when Uncle David brought me to show me to my foster parents for the
first time.It was the thing I grew up by, and measured men and their
attitude to women by--just that look in his eyes, that tender warm
look of consideration."It means a good many things, I think,--a gentle generous nature, and
a tender chivalrous heart.It means being a
good man, and one who _protects_ by sheer unselfish instinct.I don't
know how I shall ever heal him of the hurt he has done Aunt Beulah.Aunt Margaret tells me that Aunt Beulah's experience with him has been
the thing that has made her whole, that she needed to live through the
human cycle of emotion--of love and possession and renunciation before
she could be quite real and sound.This may be true, but it is not the
kind of reasoning for Peter and me to comfort ourselves with.If a
surgeon makes a mistake in cutting that afterwards does more good than
harm, he must not let that result absolve him from his mistake.Nothing can efface the mistake itself, and Peter and I must go on
feeling that way about it."I want to write something down about my love before I close this book
to-night.Something that I can turn to some day and read, or show to
my children when love comes to them.'This is the way I felt,' I want
to say to them, 'the first week of my love--this is what it meant to
me.'"It means being a greater, graver, and more beautiful person than you
ever thought you could be.It means knowing what you are, and what you
were meant to be all at once, and I think it means your chance to be
purified for the life you are to live, and the things you are to do in
it.Experience teaches, but I think love forecasts and points the way,
and shows you what you can be.Even if the light it sheds should grow
dim after a while, the path it has shown you should be clear to your
inner eye forever and ever.Having been in a great temple is a thing
to be better for all your life."It means that the soul and the things of the soul are
everlasting,--that they have got to be everlasting if love is like
this.Love between two people is more than the simple fact of their
being drawn together and standing hand in hand.It is the holy truth
about the universe.It is the rainbow of God's promise set over the
land.There comes with it the soul's certainty of living on and on
through time and space."Just my loving Peter and Peter's loving me isn't the important
thing,--the important thing is the way it has started the truth going;
my knowing and understanding mysterious laws that were sealed to me
before; Peter taking my life in his hands and making it consecrated
and true,--so true that I will not falter or suffer from any
misunderstandings or mistaken pain."It means warmth and light and tenderness, our love does, and all the
poetry in the world, and all the motherliness, (I feel so much like
his mother).When I say that he is not stronger or
wiser than any one in the world I mean--in living.I mean in the way
he behaves like a little bewildered boy sometimes.In loving he is
stronger and wiser than any living being.He takes my two hands in his
and gives me all the strength and all the wisdom and virtue there is
in the world."I haven't written down anything, after all, that any one could read.My children can't look over my shoulder on to this page, for they
would not understand it.It means nothing to any one in the world but
me.I shall have to translate for them or I shall have to say to them,
'Children, on looking into this book, I find I can't tell you what
love meant to me, because the words I have put down would mean nothing
to you.They were only meant to inform me, whenever I should turn back
to them, of the great glory and holiness that fell upon me like a
garment when love came.'"And if there should be any doubt in my heart as to the reality of the
feeling that has come to them in their turn, I should only have to
turn their faces up to the light, and look into their eyes and
_know_."I shall not die as my own mother did.I know that Peter
will be by my side until we both are old.These facts are established
in my consciousness I hardly know how, and I know that they are
there,--but if such a thing could be that I should die and leave my
little children, I would not be afraid to leave them alone in a world
that has been so good to me, under the protection of a Power that
provided me with the best and kindest guardians that a little orphan
ever had.God bless and keep them all, and make them happy."Their prices vary from one shilling to two-and-sixpence
per pair, according to their age and beauty.H. D. R.




THE PROFESSIONS.If what are called the liberal professions could speak, they would
all utter the one cry, “we are overstocked;” and echo would reply
“overstocked.” This has long been a subject of complaint, and yet nobody
seems inclined to mend the matter by making any sacrifice on his own
part--just as in a crowd, to use a familiar illustration, the man who is
loudest in exclaiming “dear me, what pressing and jostling people do keep
here!” never thinks of lightening the pressure by withdrawing his own
person from the mass.There is, however, an advantage to be derived from
the utterance and reiteration of the complaint, if not by those already
in the press, at least by those who are still happily clear of it.There are many “vanities and vexations of spirit” under the sun, but this
evil of professional redundancy seems to be one of very great magnitude.It involves not merely an outlay of much precious time and substance to
no purpose, but in most cases unfits those who constitute the “excess”
from applying themselves afterwards to other pursuits.Such persons are
the primary sufferers; but the community at large participates in the
loss.It cannot but be interesting to inquire to what this tendency may be
owing, and what remedy it might be useful to apply to the evil.Now, it
strikes me that the great cause is the exclusive attention which people
pay to the great prizes, and their total inconsideration of the number of
blanks which accompany them.Life itself has been compared to a lottery;
but in some departments the scheme may be so particularly bad, that it is
nothing short of absolute gambling to purchase a share in it.A few arrive at great eminence, and these few excite the
envy and admiration of all beholders; but they are only a few compared
with the number of those who linger in the shade, and, however anxious to
enjoy the sport, never once get a rap at the ball.Again, parents are apt to look upon the mere name of a profession as a
provision for their children.They calculate all the expenses of general
education, professional education, and then of admission to “liberty to
practise;” and finding all these items amount to a tolerably large sum,
they conceive they have bestowed an ample portion on the son who has cost
them “thus much monies.” But unfortunately they soon learn by experience
that the elevation of a profession, great as it is, does not always
possess that homely recommendation of causing the “pot to boil,” and that
the individual for whom this costly provision has been made, cannot be so
soon left to shift for himself.Here then is another cause of this evil,
namely, that people do not adequately and fairly calculate the whole cost.Of our liberal professions, the army is the only one that yields a
certain income as the produce of the purchase money, But in these “piping
times of peace,” a private soldier in the ranks might as well attempt to
verify the old song, and

    “Spend half a crown out of sixpence a-day,”

as an ensign to pay mess-money and band-money, and all other regulation
monies, keep himself in dress coat and epaulettes, and all the other et
ceteras, upon his mere pay.To live in any
comfort in the army, a subaltern should have an income from some other
source, equal at least in amount to that which he receives through the
hands of the paymaster.The army is, in fact, an expensive profession,
and of all others the least agreeable to one who is prevented, by
circumscribed means, from doing as his brother officers do.Yet the
mistake of venturing to meet all these difficulties is not unfrequently
admitted, with what vain expectation it is needless to inquire.The usual
result is such as one would anticipate, namely, that the rash adventurer,
after incurring debts, or putting his friends to unlooked-for charges, is
obliged after a short time to sell out, and bid farewell for ever to the
unprofitable profession of arms.It would be painful to dwell upon the situation of those who enter other
professions without being duly prepared to wait their turn of employment.It is recognised as a poignantly applicable truth in the profession of
the bar, that “many are called but few are chosen;” but with very few and
rare exceptions indeed, the necessity of _biding_ the time is certain.In the legal and medical professions there is no fixed income, however
small, insured to the adventurer; and unless his circle of friends and
connections be very wide and serviceable indeed, he should make up his
mind for a procrastinated return and a late harvest.But how many from
day to day, and from year to year, do launch their bark upon the ocean,
without any such prudent foresight!The result therefore is, that vast
proportion of disastrous voyages and shipwrecks of which we hear so
constantly.Such is the admitted evil--it is granted on all sides.The question
is, what is to be done?--what is the remedy?Now, the remedy for an
overstocked profession very evidently is, that people should forbear to
enter it.I am no Malthusian on the subject of population: I desire no
unnatural checks upon the increase and multiplication of her Majesty’s
subjects; but I should like to drain off a surplus from certain
situations, and turn off the in-flowing stream into more profitable
channels.I would advise parents, then, to leave the choice of a liberal
profession to those who are able to live without one.Such parties can
afford to wait for advancement, however long it may be in coming, or to
bear up against disappointment, if such should be their lot.With such
it is a safe speculation, and they may be left to indulge in it, if they
think proper.But it will be asked, what is to
be done with the multitudes who would be diverted from the professions,
if this advice were acted upon?I answer, that the money unprofitably
spent upon their education, and in fees of admission to these expensive
pursuits, would insure them a “good location” and a certain provision
for life in Canada, or some of the colonies; and that any honourable
occupation which would yield a competency ought to be preferred to
“professions” which, however “liberal,” hold out to the many but a very
doubtful prospect of that result.It is much to be regretted that there is a prevalent notion among
certain of my countrymen that “trade” is not a “genteel” thing, and
that it must be eschewed by those who have any pretensions to fashion.This unfortunate, and I must say unsound state of opinion, contributes
also, I fear, in no small degree, to that professional redundancy of
which we have been speaking.The supposed absolute necessity of a high
classical education is a natural concomitant of this opinion.All our
schools therefore are eminently classical.The University follows, as a
matter of course, and then the University leads to a liberal profession,
as surely as one step of a ladder conducts to another.Thus the evil is
nourished at the very root.Now, I would take the liberty of advising
those parents who may concur with me in the main point of over-supply in
the professions, to begin at the beginning, and in the education of their
children, to exchange this superabundance of Greek and Latin for the less
elegant but more useful accomplishment of “ciphering.” I am disposed to
concur with that facetious but shrewd fellow, Mr Samuel Slick, upon the
inestimable advantages of that too much neglected art--neglected, I mean,
in our country here, Ireland.He has demonstrated that they do every
thing by it in the States, and that without it they could do nothing.With the most profound respect to my countrymen, then, I would earnestly
recommend them to cultivate it.But it may perhaps be said that there is
no encouragement to mercantile pursuits in Ireland, and that if there
were, there would be no necessity for me to recommend “ciphering” and
its virtues to the people.To this I answer, that merchandize offers
its prizes to the ingenious and venturous much rather than to those who
wait for a “highway” to be made for them.If people were resolved to
live by trade, I think they would contrive to do so--many more, at least,
than at present operate successfully in that department.If more of
education, and more of mind, were turned in that direction, new sources
of profitable industry, at present unthought of, would probably discover
themselves.Much might be said on this subject, but I shall not enter
further into the speculation, quite satisfied if I have thrown out a hint
which may be found capable of improvement by others.The rearing of geese might be more an object of attention to our small
farmers and labourers in the vicinity of bogs and mountain tracts than it
is.The general season for the consumption of fat geese is from Michaelmas to
Christmas, and the high prices paid for them in the English markets--to
which they can be so rapidly conveyed from many parts of Ireland--appear
to offer sufficient temptation to the speculator who has the capital and
accommodation necessary for fattening them.A well-organized system of feeding this hardy and nutritious species of
poultry, in favourable localities, would give a considerable impulse to
the rearing of them, and consequently promote the comforts of many poor
Irish families, who under existing circumstances do not find it worth
while to rear them except in very small numbers.I am led to offer a few suggestions on this subject from having
ascertained that in the Fens of Lincolnshire, notwithstanding a great
decrease there in the breeding of geese from extensive drainage, one
individual, Mr Clarke of Boston, fattens every year, between Michaelmas
and Christmas, the prodigious number of seven thousand geese, and that
another dealer at Spalding prepares for the poultry butcher nearly as
many: these they purchase in lots from the farmers’ wives.Perhaps a few details of the Lincolnshire practice may be acceptable to
some of the readers of this Journal:--

The farmers in the Fens keep breeding stocks proportioned to the extent
of suitable land which they can command; and in order to insure the
fertility of the eggs, they allow one gander to three geese, which is a
higher proportion of males than is deemed necessary elsewhere.The number
of goslings in each brood averages about ten, which, allowing for all
casualties, is a considerable produce.There have been extraordinary instances of individual fecundity, on
which, however, it would be as absurd for any goose-breeder to calculate,
as it is proverbially unwise to reckon chickens before they are hatched;
and this fruitfulness is only attainable by constant feeding with
stimulating food through the preceding winter.A goose has been known to lay seventy eggs within twelve months,
twenty-six in the spring, before the time of incubation, and (after
bringing out seventeen goslings) the remainder by the end of the year.The white variety is preferred to the grey or party-, as the
birds of this colour feed more kindly, and their feathers are worth three
shillings a stone more than the others: the quality of the land, however,
on which the breeding stock is to be maintained, decides this matter,
generally strong land being necessary for the support of the white or
larger kind.Under all circumstances a white gander is preferred, in
order to have a large progeny.It has been remarked, but I know not if
with reason, that ganders are more frequently white than the females.To state all the particulars of hatching and rearing would be
superfluous, and mere repetition of what is contained in the various
works on poultry.I shall merely state some of the peculiarities of the
practice in the county of Lincoln.When the young geese are brought up at different periods by the great
dealers, they are put into pens together, according to their age, size,
and condition, and fed on steamed potatoes and ground oats, in the ratio
of one measure of oats to three of potatoes.By unremitting care as to
cleanliness, pure water, and constant feeding, these geese are fattened
in about three weeks, at an average cost of one penny per day each.The _cramming_ system, either by the fingers or the forcing pump,
described by French writers, with the accompanying barbarities of
blinding, nailing the feet to the floor, or confinement in perforated
casks or earthen pots (as is said to be the case sometimes in Poland),
are happily unknown in Lincolnshire, and I may add throughout England,
with one exception--the nailing of the feet to boards.The unequivocal
proofs of this may occasionally, but very rarely, be seen in the geese
brought into the London markets: these, however, may possibly be imported
ones, though I fear they are not so.The Lincolnshire dealers do not give any of those rich greasy pellets
of barley meal and hot liquor, which always spoil the flavour, to their
geese, as they well know that oats is the best feeding for them; barley,
besides being more expensive, renders the flesh loose and insipid, and
rather _chickeny_ in flavour.Every point of economy on this subject is matter of great moment, on the
vast scale pursued by Mr Clarke, who pays seven hundred pounds a-year
for the mere conveyance of his birds to the London market; a fact which
gives a tolerable notion of the great extent of capital employed in this
business, the extent of which is scarcely conceivable by my agricultural
countrymen.Little cost, however, is incurred by those who breed the geese, as the
stock are left to provide for themselves, except in the laying season,
and in feeding the goslings until they are old enough to eat grass or
feed on the stubbles.I have no doubt, however, that the cramp would be
less frequently experienced, if solid food were added to the grass, when
the geese are turned out to graze, although Mr Clarke attributes the
cramp, as well as gout and fever, to too close confinement alone.This
opinion does not correspond with my far more limited observation, which
leads me to believe that the cramp attacks goslings most frequently when
they are at large, and left to shift for themselves on green food alone,
and that of the poorest kind.I should think it good economy to give
them, and the old stagers too, all spare garden vegetables, for loss of
condition is prejudicial to them as well as to other animals.Mr Cobbett
used to fatten his young geese, from June to October, on Swedish turnips,
carrots, white cabbages, or lettuces, with some corn.Swedish turnips no doubt will answer very well, but not so well as
farinaceous potatoes, when immediate profit is the object.The experience
of such an extensive dealer as Mr Clarke is worth volumes of theory
and conjecture as to the mode of feeding, and he decides in favour of
potatoes and oats.The treatment for cramp and fever in Lincolnshire is bleeding--I know not
if it be hazarded in gout--but as it is not successful in the cases of
cramp in one instance out of twenty, it may be pronounced inefficacious.I have had occasion lately to remark in this Journal on the general
disinclination in England to the barbarous custom of plucking geese
alive.In Lincolnshire, however, they do so with the breeding stock three
times in the year, beginning at midsummer, and repeating the operation
twice afterwards, at intervals of six weeks between the operations.The practice is defended on the plea, that if the feathers be matured,
the geese are better for it, while it is of course admitted that the
birds must be injured more or less--according to the handling by the
pluckers--if the feathers be not ripe.But as birds do not moult three
times in the year, I do not understand how it should be correctly said
that the feathers _can_ be ripe on these three occasions.How does nature
suggest the propriety of stripping the feathers so often?Where great
numbers are kept, the loss by allowing the feathers to drop on the ground
would be serious, and on this account alone can even one stripping be
justified.In proof of the general opinion that the goose is extremely long-lived,
we have many recorded facts; among them the following:--“In 1824 there
was a goose living in the possession of Mr Hewson of Glenham, near
Market Rasen, Lincolnshire, which was then upwards of a century old.It
had been throughout that term in the constant possession of Mr Hewson’s
forefathers and himself, and on quitting his farm he would not suffer
it to be sold with his other stock, but made a present of it to the
in-coming tenant, that the venerable fowl might terminate its career on
the spot where its useful life had been spent such a length of days.”

The taste which has long prevailed among gourmands for the liver of a
goose, and has led to the enormous cruelties exercised in order to cause
its enlargement by rendering the bird diseased in that organ through high
and forced feeding in a warm temperature and close confinement, is well
known; but I doubt if many are aware of the influence of _charcoal_ in
producing an unnatural state of the liver.I had read of charcoal being put into a trough of water to sweeten it for
geese when cooped up; but from a passage in a recent work by Liebig it
would appear that the charcoal acts not as a sweetener of the water, but
in another way on the constitution of the goose.I am tempted to give the extract from its novelty:--“The production of
flesh and fat may be artificially increased: all domestic animals, for
example, contain much fat.We give food to animals which increases the
activity of certain organs, and is itself capable of being transformed
into fat.We add to the quantity of food, or we lessen the progress
of respiration and perspiration by preventing motion.The conditions
necessary to effect this purpose in birds are different from those in
quadrupeds; and it is well known that charcoal powder produces such an
excessive growth in the liver of a goose as at length causes the death of
the animal.”

We are much inferior to the English in the art of preparing poultry for
the market; and this is the more to be regretted in the instance of
geese, especially as we can supply potatoes--which I have shown to be
the chief material of their fattening food--at half their cost in many
parts of England.This advantage alone ought to render the friends of our
agricultural poor earnest in promoting the rearing and fattening of geese
in localities favourable for the purpose.The encouragement of our native manufactures is now a general topic of
conversation and interest, and we hope the present excitement of the
public mind on this subject will be productive of permanent good.We also
hope that the encouragement proposed to be given to articles of Irish
manufacture will be extended to the productions of the head as well as to
those of the hands; that the manufacturer of Irish wit and humour will be
deemed worthy of support as well as those of silks, woollens, or felts;
and, that Irishmen shall venture to estimate the value of Irish produce
for themselves, without waiting as heretofore till they get “the London
stamp” upon them, as our play-going people of old times used to do in the
case of the eminent Irish actors.We are indeed greatly inclined to believe that our Irish manufactures
are rising in estimation in England, from the fact which has come to
our knowledge that many thousands of our Belfast hams are sold annually
at the other side of the water as genuine Yorkshire, and also that many
of those Belfast hams with the Yorkshire stamp find their way back into
“Ould Ireland,” and are bought as English by those who would despise
them as Irish.Now, we should like our countrymen not to be gulled in
this way, but depend upon their own judgment in the matter of hams, and
in like manner in the matter of articles of Irish literary manufacture,
without waiting for the London stamp to be put on them.The necessity
for such discrimination and confidence in their own judgment exists
equally in hams and literature.Thus certain English editors approve so
highly of our articles in the Irish Penny Journal, that they copy them
by wholesale, not only without acknowledgment, but actually do us the
favour to father them as their own!As an example of this patronage, we
may refer to a recent number of the Court Gazette, in which its editor
has been entertaining his aristocratic readers with a little piece of
_badinage_ from our Journal, expressly written for us, and entitled “A
short chapter on Bustles,” but which he gives as written for the said
Court Gazette!Now, this is really very considerate and complimentary,
and we of course feel grateful.But, better again, we find our able and
kind friend the editor of the _Monitor_ and _Irishman_, presenting, no
doubt inadvertently, this very article to his Irish readers a few weeks
ago--not even as an Irish article that had got the London stamp upon it,
but as actually one of true British manufacture--the produce of the Court
Gazette.Now, in perfect good humour, we ask our friend, as such we have reason to
consider him, could he not as well have copied this article from our own
Journal, and given us the credit of it--and would it not be worthy of the
consistency and patriotism of the _Irishman_, who writes so ably in the
cause of Irish manufactures, to extend his support, as far as might be
compatible with truth and honesty, to the native literature of Ireland?*       *       *       *       *

    Printed and published every Saturday by GUNN and CAMERON, at
    the Office of the General Advertiser, No.6, Church Lane,
    College Green, Dublin.--Sold by all Booksellers.End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Irish Penny Journal, Vol.This answer pleased Powhatan so little that they heard nothing from him
till the following March.Then Sir Thomas Dale and Captain Argall, with
several vessels and one hundred and fifty men, went up to Powhatan's
chief seat, taking his daughter with them, offering the Indians a chance
to fight for her or to take her in peace on surrender of the stolen
goods.The Indians received this with bravado and flights of arrows,
reminding them of the fate of Captain Ratcliffe.The whites landed,
killed some Indians, burnt forty houses, pillaged the village, and went
on up the river and came to anchor in front of Matchcot, the Emperor's
chief town.Here were assembled four hundred armed men, with bows and
arrows, who dared them to come ashore.Ashore they went, and a palaver
was held.The Indians wanted a day to consult their King, after which
they would fight, if nothing but blood would satisfy the whites.Two of Powhatan's sons who were present expressed a desire to see their
sister, who had been taken on shore.When they had sight of her, and
saw how well she was cared for, they greatly rejoiced and promised to
persuade their father to redeem her and conclude a lasting peace.The
two brothers were taken on board ship, and Master John Rolfe and Master
Sparkes were sent to negotiate with the King.Powhatan did not show
himself, but his brother Apachamo, his successor, promised to use his
best efforts to bring about a peace, and the expedition returned to
Jamestown."Long before this time," Hamor relates, "a gentleman of approved
behaviour and honest carriage, Master John Rolfe, had been in love with
Pocahuntas and she with him, which thing at the instant that we were
in parlee with them, myselfe made known to Sir Thomas Dale, by a letter
from him [Rolfe] whereby he entreated his advice and furtherance to his
love, if so it seemed fit to him for the good of the Plantation, and
Pocahuntas herself acquainted her brethren therewith."Governor Dale
approved this, and consequently was willing to retire without other
conditions."The bruite of this pretended marriage [Hamor continues]
came soon to Powhatan's knowledge, a thing acceptable to him, as
appeared by his sudden consent thereunto, who some ten daies after sent
an old uncle of hirs, named Opachisco, to give her as his deputy in the
church, and two of his sonnes to see the mariage solemnized which was
accordingly done about the fifth of April [1614], and ever since we have
had friendly commerce and trade, not only with Powhatan himself, but
also with his subjects round about us; so as now I see no reason why the
collonie should not thrive a pace."This marriage was justly celebrated as the means and beginning of a firm
peace which long continued, so that Pocahontas was again entitled to the
grateful remembrance of the Virginia settlers.Already, in 1612, a plan
had been mooted in Virginia of marrying the English with the natives,
and of obtaining the recognition of Powhatan and those allied to him as
members of a fifth kingdom, with certain privileges.Cunega, the Spanish
ambassador at London, on September 22, 1612, writes: "Although some
suppose the plantation to decrease, he is credibly informed that there
is a determination to marry some of the people that go over to Virginia;
forty or fifty are already so married, and English women intermingle and
are received kindly by the natives.A zealous minister hath been wounded
for reprehending it."John Rolfe was a man of industry, and apparently devoted to the
welfare of the colony.He probably brought with him in 1610 his wife,
who gave birth to his daughter Bermuda, born on the Somers Islands at
the time of the shipwreck.Hamor gives
him the distinction of being the first in the colony to try, in 1612,
the planting and raising of tobacco."No man [he adds] hath labored to
his power, by good example there and worthy encouragement into England
by his letters, than he hath done, witness his marriage with Powhatan's
daughter, one of rude education, manners barbarous and cursed
generation, meerely for the good and honor of the plantation: and
least any man should conceive that some sinister respects allured him
hereunto, I have made bold, contrary to his knowledge, in the end of my
treatise to insert the true coppie of his letter written to Sir Thomas
Dale."The letter is a long, labored, and curious document, and comes nearer to
a theological treatise than any love-letter we have on record.Why Rolfe did not speak to Dale, whom he saw every day,
instead of inflicting upon him this painful document, in which the
flutterings of a too susceptible widower's heart are hidden under a
great resolve of self-sacrifice, is not plain.The letter protests in a tedious preamble that the writer is moved
entirely by the Spirit of God, and continues:

"Let therefore this my well advised protestation, which here I make
between God and my own conscience, be a sufficient witness, at the
dreadful day of judgment (when the secrets of all men's hearts shall be
opened) to condemne me herein, if my chiefest interest and purpose be
not to strive with all my power of body and mind, in the undertaking
of so weighty a matter, no way led (so far forth as man's weakness may
permit) with the unbridled desire of carnall affection; but for the good
of this plantation, for the honour of our countrie, for the glory of
God, for my owne salvation, and for the converting to the true knowledge
of God and Jesus Christ, an unbelieving creature, namely Pokahuntas.To whom my heartie and best thoughts are, and have a long time bin so
entangled, and inthralled in so intricate a laborinth, that I was even
awearied to unwinde myself thereout."Master Rolfe goes on to describe the mighty war in his meditations on
this subject, in which he had set before his eyes the frailty of mankind
and his proneness to evil and wicked thoughts.He is aware of God's
displeasure against the sons of Levi and Israel for marrying strange
wives, and this has caused him to look about warily and with good
circumspection "into the grounds and principall agitations which should
thus provoke me to be in love with one, whose education hath bin rude,
her manners barbarous, her generation accursed, and so discrepant in
all nurtriture from myselfe, that oftentimes with feare and trembling,
I have ended my private controversie with this: surely these are
wicked instigations, fetched by him who seeketh and delighteth in man's
distruction; and so with fervent prayers to be ever preserved from such
diabolical assaults (as I looke those to be) I have taken some rest."The good man was desperately in love and wanted to marry the Indian, and
consequently he got no peace; and still being tormented with her image,
whether she was absent or present, he set out to produce an ingenious
reason (to show the world) for marrying her.He continues:

"Thus when I thought I had obtained my peace and quietnesse, beholde
another, but more gracious tentation hath made breaches into my holiest
and strongest meditations; with which I have been put to a new triall,
in a straighter manner than the former; for besides the weary passions
and sufferings which I have dailey, hourely, yea and in my sleepe
indured, even awaking me to astonishment, taxing me with remissnesse,
and carelessnesse, refusing and neglecting to perform the duteie of a
good Christian, pulling me by the eare, and crying: Why dost thou not
indeavor to make her a Christian?And these have happened to my greater
wonder, even when she hath been furthest seperated from me, which
in common reason (were it not an undoubted work of God) might breede
forgetfulnesse of a far more worthie creature."He accurately describes the symptoms and appears to understand the
remedy, but he is after a large-sized motive:

"Besides, I say the holy Spirit of God hath often demanded of me, why I
was created?If not for transitory pleasures and worldly vanities, but
to labour in the Lord's vineyard, there to sow and plant, to nourish and
increase the fruites thereof, daily adding with the good husband in the
gospell, somewhat to the tallent, that in the ends the fruites may be
reaped, to the comfort of the labourer in this life, and his salvation
in the world to come.... Likewise, adding hereunto her great appearance
of love to me, her desire to be taught and instructed in the knowledge
of God, her capablenesse of understanding, her aptness and willingness
to receive anie good impression, and also the spirituall, besides her
owne incitements stirring me up hereunto."The "incitements" gave him courage, so that he exclaims: "Shall I be of
so untoward a disposition, as to refuse to lead the blind into the right
way?Shall I be so unnatural, as not to give bread to the hungrie, or
uncharitable, as not to cover the naked?"It wasn't to be thought of, such wickedness; and so Master Rolfe screwed
up his courage to marry the glorious Princess, from whom thousands
of people were afterwards so anxious to be descended.But he made the
sacrifice for the glory of the country, the benefit of the plantation,
and the conversion of the unregenerate, and other and lower motive
he vigorously repels: "Now, if the vulgar sort, who square all men's
actions by the base rule of their own filthinesse, shall tax or taunt
mee in this my godly labour: let them know it is not hungry appetite, to
gorge myselfe with incontinency; sure (if I would and were so sensually
inclined) I might satisfy such desire, though not without a seared
conscience, yet with Christians more pleasing to the eie, and less
fearefull in the offense unlawfully committed.Nor am I in so desperate
an estate, that I regard not what becometh of me; nor am I out of hope
but one day to see my country, nor so void of friends, nor mean in
birth, but there to obtain a mach to my great con'tent.... But shall it
please God thus to dispose of me (which I earnestly desire to fulfill
my ends before set down) I will heartily accept of it as a godly taxe
appointed me, and I will never cease (God assisting me) untill I have
accomplished, and brought to perfection so holy a worke, in which I will
daily pray God to bless me, to mine and her eternal happiness."It is to be hoped that if sanctimonious John wrote any love-letters to
Amonata they had less cant in them than this.But it was pleasing to Sir
Thomas Dale, who was a man to appreciate the high motives of Mr.In a letter which he despatched from Jamestown, June 18, 1614, to a
reverend friend in London, he describes the expedition when Pocahontas
was carried up the river, and adds the information that when she went on
shore, "she would not talk to any of them, scarcely to them of the best
sort, and to them only, that if her father had loved her, he would not
value her less than old swords, pieces, or axes; wherefore she would
still dwell with the Englishmen who loved her.""Powhatan's daughter [the letter continues] I caused to be carefully
instructed in Christian Religion, who after she had made some good
progress therein, renounced publically her countrey idolatry, openly
confessed her Christian faith, was, as she desired, baptized, and is
since married to an English Gentleman of good understanding (as by his
letter unto me, containing the reasons for his marriage of her you may
perceive), an other knot to bind this peace the stronger.Her father
and friends gave approbation to it, and her uncle gave her to him in
the church; she lives civilly and lovingly with him, and I trust will
increase in goodness, as the knowledge of God increaseth in her.She
will goe into England with me, and were it but the gayning of this one
soule, I will think my time, toile, and present stay well spent."Hamor also appends to his narration a short letter, of the same date
with the above, from the minister Alexander Whittaker, the genuineness
of which is questioned.In speaking of the good deeds of Sir Thomas Dale
it says: "But that which is best, one Pocahuntas or Matoa, the
daughter of Powhatan, is married to an honest and discreet English
Gentleman--Master Rolfe, and that after she had openly renounced her
countrey Idolatry, and confessed the faith of Jesus Christ, and was
baptized, which thing Sir Thomas Dale had laboured a long time to ground
her in."If, as this proclaims, she was married after her conversion,
then Rolfe's tender conscience must have given him another twist for
wedding her, when the reason for marrying her (her conversion) had
ceased with her baptism.His marriage, according to this, was a pure
work of supererogation.It took place about the 5th of April, 1614.It
is not known who performed the ceremony.How Pocahontas passed her time in Jamestown during the period of her
detention, we are not told.Conjectures are made that she was an inmate
of the house of Sir Thomas Dale, or of that of the Rev.Whittaker,
both of whom labored zealously to enlighten her mind on religious
subjects.She must also have been learning English and civilized ways,
for it is sure that she spoke our language very well when she went to
London.John Rolfe was also laboring for her conversion, and we may
suppose that with all these ministrations, mingled with her love of Mr.Rolfe, which that ingenious widower had discovered, and her desire to
convert him into a husband, she was not an unwilling captive.Whatever
may have been her barbarous instincts, we have the testimony of Governor
Dale that she lived "civilly and lovingly" with her husband.STORY OF POCAHONTAS, CONTINUED

Sir Thomas Dale was on the whole the most efficient and discreet
Governor the colony had had.One element of his success was no doubt the
change in the charter of 1609.By the first charter everything had
been held in common by the company, and there had been no division of
property or allotment of land among the colonists.Under the new regime
land was held in severalty, and the spur of individual interest began
at once to improve the condition of the settlement.The character of the
colonists was also gradually improving.They had not been of a sort
to fulfill the earnest desire of the London promoter's to spread vital
piety in the New World.A zealous defense of Virginia and Maryland,
against "scandalous imputation," entitled "Leah and Rachel; or, The
Two Fruitful Sisters," by Mr.John Hammond, London, 1656, considers
the charges that Virginia "is an unhealthy place, a nest of rogues,
abandoned women, dissolut and rookery persons; a place of intolerable
labour, bad usage and hard diet"; and admits that "at the first
settling, and for many years after, it deserved most of these
aspersions, nor were they then aspersions but truths.... There were
jails supplied, youth seduced, infamous women drilled in, the provision
all brought out of England, and that embezzled by the Trustees."Governor Dale was a soldier; entering the army in the Netherlands as a
private he had risen to high position, and received knighthood in 1606.Shortly after he was with Sir Thomas Gates in South Holland.The States
General in 1611 granted him three years' term of absence in Virginia.Upon his arrival he began to put in force that system of industry and
frugality he had observed in Holland.He had all the imperiousness of a
soldier, and in an altercation with Captain Newport, occasioned by some
injurious remarks the latter made about Sir Thomas Smith, the treasurer,
he pulled his beard and threatened to hang him.Active operations for
settling new plantations were at once begun, and Dale wrote to Cecil,
the Earl of Salisbury, for 2,000 good colonists to be sent out, for the
three hundred that came were "so profane, so riotous, so full of mutiny,
that not many are Christians but in name, their bodies so diseased and
crazed that not sixty of them may be employed."He served afterwards
with credit in Holland, was made commander of the East Indian fleet in
1618, had a naval engagement with the Dutch near Bantam in 1619, and
died in 1620 from the effects of the climate.He was twice married, and
his second wife, Lady Fanny, the cousin of his first wife, survived him
and received a patent for a Virginia plantation.Governor Dale kept steadily in view the conversion of the Indians to
Christianity, and the success of John Rolfe with Matoaka inspired
him with a desire to convert another daughter of Powhatan, of whose
exquisite perfections he had heard.He therefore despatched Ralph Hamor,
with the English boy, Thomas Savage, as interpreter, on a mission to
the court of Powhatan, "upon a message unto him, which was to deale with
him, if by any means I might procure a daughter of his, who (Pocahuntas
being already in our possession) is generally reported to be his delight
and darling, and surely he esteemed her as his owne Soule, for surer
pledge of peace."This visit Hamor relates with great naivete.At his town of Matchcot, near the head of York River, Powhatan
himself received his visitors when they landed, with great cordiality,
expressing much pleasure at seeing again the boy who had been presented
to him by Captain Newport, and whom he had not seen since he gave him
leave to go and see his friends at Jamestown four years before; he also
inquired anxiously after Namontack, whom he had sent to King James's
land to see him and his country and report thereon, and then led the way
to his house, where he sat down on his bedstead side."On each hand of
him was placed a comely and personable young woman, which they called
his Queenes, the howse within round about beset with them, the outside
guarded with a hundred bowmen."The first thing offered was a pipe of tobacco, which Powhatan "first
drank," and then passed to Hamor, who "drank" what he pleased and then
returned it.The Emperor then inquired how his brother Sir Thomas Dale
fared, "and after that of his daughter's welfare, her marriage, his
unknown son, and how they liked, lived and loved together."Hamor
replied "that his brother was very well, and his daughter so well
content that she would not change her life to return and live with him,
whereat he laughed heartily, and said he was very glad of it."Powhatan then desired to know the cause of his unexpected coming, and
Mr.Hamor said his message was private, to be delivered to him without
the presence of any except one of his councilors, and one of the guides,
who already knew it.Therefore the house was cleared of all except the two Queens, who may
never sequester themselves, and Mr.First there
was a message of love and inviolable peace, the production of presents
of coffee, beads, combs, fish-hooks, and knives, and the promise of
a grindstone when it pleased the Emperor to send for it.Hamor then
proceeded:

"The bruite of the exquesite perfection of your youngest daughter, being
famous through all your territories, hath come to the hearing of your
brother, Sir Thomas Dale, who for this purpose hath addressed me hither,
to intreate you by that brotherly friendship you make profession of, to
permit her (with me) to returne unto him, partly for the desire which
himselfe hath, and partly for the desire her sister hath to see her of
whom, if fame hath not been prodigall, as like enough it hath not, your
brother (by your favour) would gladly make his nearest companion, wife
and bed fellow [many times he would have interrupted my speech, which
I entreated him to heare out, and then if he pleased to returne me
answer], and the reason hereof is, because being now friendly and firmly
united together, and made one people [as he supposeth and believes] in
the bond of love, he would make a natural union between us, principally
because himself hath taken resolution to dwel in your country so long as
he liveth, and would not only therefore have the firmest assurance hee
may, of perpetuall friendship from you, but also hereby binde himselfe
thereunto."Powhatan replied with dignity that he gladly accepted the salute of love
and peace, which he and his subjects would exactly maintain.But as to
the other matter he said: "My daughter, whom my brother desireth, I sold
within these three days to be wife to a great Weroance for two bushels
of Roanoke [a small kind of beads made of oyster shells], and it is true
she is already gone with him, three days' journey from me."Hamor persisted that this marriage need not stand in the way; "that if
he pleased herein to gratify his Brother he might, restoring the Roanoke
without the imputation of injustice, take home his daughter again, the
rather because she was not full twelve years old, and therefore not
marriageable; assuring him besides the bond of peace, so much the
firmer, he should have treble the price of his daughter in beads,
copper, hatchets, and many other things more useful for him."The reply of the noble old savage to this infamous demand ought to have
brought a blush to the cheeks of those who made it.He said he loved his
daughter as dearly as his life; he had many children, but he delighted
in none so much as in her; he could not live if he did not see her
often, as he would not if she were living with the whites, and he
was determined not to put himself in their hands.He desired no other
assurance of friendship than his brother had given him, who had already
one of his daughters as a pledge, which was sufficient while she lived;
"when she dieth he shall have another child of mine."And then he broke
forth in pathetic eloquence: "I hold it not a brotherly part of your
King, to desire to bereave me of two of my children at once; further
give him to understand, that if he had no pledge at all, he should not
need to distrust any injury from me, or any under my subjection; there
have been too many of his and my men killed, and by my occasion there
shall never be more; I which have power to perform it have said it; no
not though I should have just occasion offered, for I am now old and
would gladly end my days in peace; so as if the English offer me any
injury, my country is large enough, I will remove myself farther from
you."The old man hospitably entertained his guests for a day or two, loaded
them with presents, among which were two dressed buckskins, white as
snow, for his son and daughter, and, requesting some articles sent him
in return, bade them farewell with this message to Governor Dale: "I
hope this will give him good satisfaction, if it do not I will go three
days' journey farther from him, and never see Englishmen more."It
speaks well for the temperate habits of this savage that after he had
feasted his guests, "he caused to be fetched a great glass of sack, some
three quarts or better, which Captain Newport had given him six or seven
years since, carefully preserved by him, not much above a pint in all
this time spent, and gave each of us in a great oyster shell some three
spoonfuls."We trust that Sir Thomas Dale gave a faithful account of all this to his
wife in England.Sir Thomas Gates left Virginia in the spring of 1614 and never returned.After his departure scarcity and severity developed a mutiny, and six
of the settlers were executed.Rolfe was planting tobacco (he has the
credit of being the first white planter of it), and his wife was getting
an inside view of Christian civilization.In 1616 Sir Thomas Dale returned to England with his company and John
Rolfe and Pocahontas, and several other Indians.They reached Plymouth
early in June, and on the 20th Lord Carew made this note: "Sir Thomas
Dale returned from Virginia; he hath brought divers men and women of
thatt countrye to be educated here, and one Rolfe who married a daughter
of Pohetan (the barbarous prince) called Pocahuntas, hath brought his
wife with him into England."On the 22d Sir John Chamberlain wrote to
Sir Dudley Carlton that there were "ten or twelve, old and young, of
that country."The Indian girls who came with Pocahontas appear to have been a great
care to the London company.In May, 1620, is a record that the company
had to pay for physic and cordials for one of them who had been living
as a servant in Cheapside, and was very weak of a consumption.The same
year two other of the maids were shipped off to the Bermudas, after
being long a charge to the company, in the hope that they might there
get husbands, "that after they were converted and had children, they
might be sent to their country and kindred to civilize them."The attempt to educate them in England was not
very successful, and a proposal to bring over Indian boys obtained this
comment from Sir Edwin Sandys:

"Now to send for them into England, and to have them educated here, he
found upon experience of those brought by Sir Thomas Dale, might be far
from the Christian work intended."One Nanamack, a lad brought over by
Lord Delaware, lived some years in houses where "he heard not much of
religion but sins, had many times examples of drinking, swearing and
like evils, ran as he was a mere Pagan," till he fell in with a
devout family and changed his life, but died before he was baptized.Accompanying Pocahontas was a councilor of Powhatan, one Tomocomo, the
husband of one of her sisters, of whom Purchas says in his "Pilgrimes":
"With this savage I have often conversed with my good friend Master
Doctor Goldstone where he was a frequent geust, and where I have seen
him sing and dance his diabolical measures, and heard him discourse of
his country and religion.... Master Rolfe lent me a discourse which
I have in my Pilgrimage delivered.And his wife did not only accustom
herself to civility, but still carried herself as the daughter of a
king, and was accordingly respected, not only by the Company which
allowed provision for herself and her son, but of divers particular
persons of honor, in their hopeful zeal by her to advance Christianity.I was present when my honorable and reverend patron, the Lord Bishop of
London, Doctor King, entertained her with festival state and pomp beyond
what I had seen in his great hospitality offered to other ladies.At
her return towards Virginia she came at Gravesend to her end and grave,
having given great demonstration of her Christian sincerity, as the
first fruits of Virginia conversion, leaving here a goodly memory,
and the hopes of her resurrection, her soul aspiring to see and enjoy
permanently in heaven what here she had joyed to hear and believe of her
blessed Saviour.Not such was Tomocomo, but a blasphemer of what he knew
not and preferring his God to ours because he taught them (by his own
so appearing) to wear their Devil-lock at the left ear; he acquainted me
with the manner of that his appearance, and believed that their Okee or
Devil had taught them their husbandry."Upon news of her arrival, Captain Smith, either to increase his own
importance or because Pocahontas was neglected, addressed a letter or
"little booke" to Queen Anne, the consort of King James.This letter is
found in Smith's "General Historie" ( 1624), where it is introduced
as having been sent to Queen Anne in 1616.We find no mention of its receipt or of any acknowledgment of
it.Whether the "abstract" in the "General Historie" is exactly like
the original we have no means of knowing.We have no more confidence in
Smith's memory than we have in his dates.The letter is as follows:

"To the most high and vertuous Princesse Queene Anne of Great Brittaine."The love I beare my God, my King and Countrie hath so oft emboldened me
in the worst of extreme dangers, that now honestie doth constraine mee
presume thus farre beyond my selfe, to present your Majestie this short
discourse: if ingratitude be a deadly poyson to all honest vertues,
I must be guiltie of that crime if I should omit any meanes to bee
thankful."That some ten yeeres agoe being in Virginia, and taken prisoner by the
power of Powhaten, their chiefe King, I received from this great Salvage
exceeding great courtesie, especially from his sonne Nantaquaus, the
most manliest, comeliest, boldest spirit, I ever saw in a Salvage and
his sister Pocahontas, the Kings most deare and well-beloved daughter,
being but a childe of twelve or thirteen yeeres of age, whose
compassionate pitifull heart, of desperate estate, gave me much cause
to respect her: I being the first Christian this proud King and his grim
attendants ever saw, and thus enthralled in their barbarous power, I
cannot say I felt the least occasion of want that was in the power of
those my mortall foes to prevent notwithstanding al their threats.After
some six weeks fatting amongst those Salvage Courtiers, at the minute of
my execution, she hazarded the beating out of her owne braines to save
mine, and not onely that, but so prevailed with her father, that I was
safely conducted to Jamestowne, where I found about eight and thirty
miserable poore and sicke creatures, to keepe possession of all those
large territories of Virginia, such was the weaknesse of this poore
Commonwealth, as had the Salvages not fed us, we directly had starved."And this reliefe, most gracious Queene, was commonly brought us by
this Lady Pocahontas, notwithstanding all these passages when inconstant
Fortune turned our Peace to warre, this tender Virgin would still not
spare to dare to visit us, and by her our jarres have been oft appeased,
and our wants still supplyed; were it the policie of her father thus to
imploy her, or the ordinance of God thus to make her his instrument, or
her extraordinarie affection to our Nation, I know not: but of this I am
sure: when her father with the utmost of his policie and power, sought
to surprize mee, having but eighteene with mee, the dark night could not
affright her from comming through the irksome woods, and with watered
eies gave me intilligence, with her best advice to escape his furie:
which had hee known hee had surely slaine her.Jamestowne with her wild
traine she as freely frequented, as her father's habitation: and during
the time of two or three yeares, she next under God, was still the
instrument to preserve this Colonie from death, famine and utter
confusion, which if in those times had once beene dissolved, Virginia
might have laine as it was at our first arrivall to this day.Since
then, this buisinesse having been turned and varied by many accidents
from that I left it at: it is most certaine, after a long and
troublesome warre after my departure, betwixt her father and our
Colonie, all which time shee was not heard of, about two yeeres longer,
the Colonie by that meanes was releived, peace concluded, and at last
rejecting her barbarous condition, was maried to an English Gentleman,
with whom at this present she is in England; the first Christian ever of
that Nation, the first Virginian ever spake English, or had a childe
in mariage by an Englishman, a matter surely, if my meaning bee truly
considered and well understood, worthy a Princes understanding."Thus most gracious Lady, I have related to your Majestic, what at your
best leasure our approved Histories will account you at large, and done
in the time of your Majesties life, and however this might bee presented
you from a more worthy pen, it cannot from a more honest heart, as yet
I never begged anything of the State, or any, and it is my want of
abilitie and her exceeding desert, your birth, meanes, and authoritie,
her birth, vertue, want and simplicitie, doth make mee thus bold, humbly
to beseech your Majestic: to take this knowledge of her though it be
from one so unworthy to be the reporter, as myselfe, her husband's
estate not being able to make her fit to attend your Majestic: the most
and least I can doe, is to tell you this, because none so oft hath tried
it as myselfe: and the rather being of so great a spirit, however her
station: if she should not be well received, seeing this Kingdome
may rightly have a Kingdome by her meanes: her present love to us and
Christianitie, might turne to such scorne and furie, as to divert all
this good to the worst of evill, when finding so great a Queene should
doe her some honour more than she can imagine, for being so kinde to
your servants and subjects, would so ravish her with content, as endeare
her dearest bloud to effect that, your Majestic and all the Kings honest
subjects most earnestly desire: and so I humbly kisse your gracious
hands."The passage in this letter, "She hazarded the beating out of her owne
braines to save mine," is inconsistent with the preceding portion of the
paragraph which speaks of "the exceeding great courtesie" of Powhatan;
and Smith was quite capable of inserting it afterwards when he made up
his

"General Historie."Smith represents himself at this time--the last half of 1616 and the
first three months of 1617--as preparing to attempt a third voyage to
New England (which he did not make), and too busy to do Pocahontas the
service she desired.She was staying at Branford, either from neglect
of the company or because the London smoke disagreed with her, and there
Smith went to see her.His account of his intercourse with her, the only
one we have, must be given for what it is worth.According to this she
had supposed Smith dead, and took umbrage at his neglect of her.He
writes:

"After a modest salutation, without any word, she turned about, obscured
her face, as not seeming well contented; and in that humour, her husband
with divers others, we all left her two or three hours repenting myself
to have writ she could speak English.But not long after she began to
talke, remembering me well what courtesies she had done: saying, 'You
did promise Powhatan what was yours should be his, and he the like to
you; you called him father, being in his land a stranger, and by the
same reason so must I do you:' which though I would have excused, I
durst not allow of that title, because she was a king's daughter.With
a well set countenance she said: 'Were you not afraid to come into my
father's country and cause fear in him and all his people (but me), and
fear you have I should call you father; I tell you then I will, and
you shall call me childe, and so I will be forever and ever, your
contrieman.They did tell me alwaies you were dead, and I knew no other
till I came to Plymouth, yet Powhatan did command Uttamatomakkin to seek
you, and know the truth, because your countriemen will lie much."'This savage was the Tomocomo spoken of above, who had been sent by
Powhatan to take a census of the people of England, and report what they
and their state were.At Plymouth he got a long stick and began to make
notches in it for the people he saw.But he was quickly weary of that
task.He told Smith that Powhatan bade him seek him out, and get him
to show him his God, and the King, Queen, and Prince, of whom Smith had
told so much.Smith put him off about showing his God, but said he had
heard that he had seen the King.This the Indian denied, James probably
not coming up to his idea of a king, till by circumstances he was
convinced he had seen him.Then he replied very sadly: "You gave
Powhatan a white dog, which Powhatan fed as himself, but your king gave
me nothing, and I am better than your white dog."Smith adds that he took several courtiers to see Pocahontas, and "they
did think God had a great hand in her conversion, and they have seen
many English ladies worse favoured, proportioned, and behavioured;" and
he heard that it had pleased the King and Queen greatly to esteem her,
as also Lord and Lady Delaware, and other persons of good quality, both
at the masques and otherwise.Much has been said about the reception of Pocahontas in London, but
the contemporary notices of her are scant.The Indians were objects of
curiosity for a time in London, as odd Americans have often been since,
and the rank of Pocahontas procured her special attention.At the playing of Ben Jonson's "Christmas his Mask" at court, January
6, 1616-17, Pocahontas and Tomocomo were both present, and Chamberlain
writes to Carleton: "The Virginian woman Pocahuntas with her father
counsellor have been with the King and graciously used, and both she and
her assistant were pleased at the Masque.She is upon her return though
sore against her will, if the wind would about to send her away."Neill says that "after the first weeks of her residence in England
she does not appear to be spoken of as the wife of Rolfe by the letter
writers," and the Rev.Peter Fontaine says that "when they heard that
Rolfe had married Pocahontas, it was deliberated in council whether he
had not committed high treason by so doing, that is marrying an Indian
princesse."His interest in the colony was never
the most intelligent, and apt to be in things trivial.15, 1609) writes to Lord Salisbury that he had told the King of
the Virginia squirrels brought into England, which are said to fly.The
King very earnestly asked if none were provided for him, and said he was
sure Salisbury would get him one.Would not have troubled him, "but that
you know so well how he is affected to these toys."There has been recently found in the British Museum a print of a
portrait of Pocahontas, with a legend round it in Latin, which is
translated: "Matoaka, alias Rebecka, Daughter of Prince Powhatan,
Emperor of Virginia; converted to Christianity, married Mr.Rolff; died
on shipboard at Gravesend 1617."This is doubtless the portrait engraved
by Simon De Passe in 1616, and now inserted in the extant copies of the
London edition of the "General Historie," 1624.It is not probable that
the portrait was originally published with the "General Historie."The
portrait inserted in the edition of 1624 has this inscription:

Round the portrait:

"Matoaka als Rebecca Filia Potentiss Princ: Pohatani Imp: Virginim."In the oval, under the portrait:

         "Aetatis suae 21 A.1616"
Below:

"Matoaks als Rebecka daughter to the mighty Prince Powhatan Emprour of
Attanoughkomouck als virginia converted and baptized in the Christian
faith, and wife to the worth Mr.Camden in his "History of Gravesend" says that everybody paid this
young lady all imaginable respect, and it was believed she would have
sufficiently acknowledged those favors, had she lived to return to her
own country, by bringing the Indians to a kinder disposition toward the
English; and that she died, "giving testimony all the time she lay sick,
of her being a very good Christian."The Lady Rebecka, as she was called in London, died on shipboard at
Gravesend after a brief illness, said to be of only three days, probably
on the 21st of March, 1617.I have seen somewhere a statement, which
I cannot confirm, that her disease was smallpox.George's Church,
where she was buried, was destroyed by fire in 1727.The register of
that church has this record:


       "1616, May 21 Rebecca Wrothe
        Wyff of Thomas Wroth gent
     A Virginia lady borne, here was buried
          in ye chaunncle."Yet there is no doubt, according to a record in the Calendar of State
Papers, dated "1617, 29 March, London," that her death occurred March
21, 1617.John Rolfe was made Secretary of Virginia when Captain Argall became
Governor, and seems to have been associated in the schemes of that
unscrupulous person and to have forfeited the good opinion of the
company.August 23, 1618, the company wrote to Argall: "We cannot
imagine why you should give us warning that Opechankano and the natives
have given the country to Mr.Rolfe's child, and that they reserve it
from all others till he comes of years except as we suppose as some
do here report it be a device of your own, to some special purpose for
yourself."It appears also by the minutes of the company in 1621 that
Lady Delaware had trouble to recover goods of hers left in Rolfe's hands
in Virginia, and desired a commission directed to Sir Thomas Wyatt and
Mr.George Sandys to examine what goods of the late "Lord Deleware had
come into Rolfe's possession and get satisfaction of him."This George
Sandys is the famous traveler who made a journey through the Turkish
Empire in 1610, and who wrote, while living in Virginia, the first book
written in the New World, the completion of his translation of Ovid's
"Metamorphosis."John Rolfe died in Virginia in 1622, leaving a wife and children.This is supposed to be his third wife, though there is no note of his
marriage to her nor of the death of his first.October 7, 1622, his
brother Henry Rolfe petitioned that the estate of John should be
converted to the support of his relict wife and children and to his own
indemnity for having brought up John's child by Powhatan's daughter.This child, named Thomas Rolfe, was given after the death of Pocahontas
to the keeping of Sir Lewis Stukely of Plymouth, who fell into evil
practices, and the boy was transferred to the guardianship of his uncle
Henry Rolfe, and educated in London.When he was grown up he returned
to Virginia, and was probably there married.There is on record his
application to the Virginia authorities in 1641 for leave to go into the
Indian country and visit Cleopatra, his mother's sister.He left an only
daughter who was married, says Stith (1753), "to Col.John Bolling; by
whom she left an only son, the late Major John Bolling, who was father
to the present Col.John Bolling, and several daughters, married to
Col.Campbell in his "History of Virginia"
says that the first Randolph that came to the James River was an
esteemed and industrious mechanic, and that one of his sons, Richard,
grandfather of the celebrated John Randolph, married Jane Bolling, the
great granddaughter of Pocahontas.In 1618 died the great Powhatan, full of years and satiated with
fighting and the savage delights of life.He had many names and titles;
his own people sometimes called him Ottaniack, sometimes Mamauatonick,
and usually in his presence Wahunsenasawk.He ruled, by inheritance and
conquest, with many chiefs under him, over a large territory with not
defined borders, lying on the James, the York, the Rappahannock, the
Potomac, and the Pawtuxet Rivers.He had several seats, at which he
alternately lived with his many wives and guard of bowmen, the chief of
which at the arrival of the English was Werowomocomo, on the Pamunkey
(York) River.He is said
to have had a hundred wives, and generally a dozen--the
youngest--personally attending him.When he had a mind to add to his
harem he seems to have had the ancient oriental custom of sending into
all his dominions for the fairest maidens to be brought from whom to
select.And he gave the wives of whom he was tired to his favorites.Strachey makes a striking description of him as he appeared about 1610:
"He is a goodly old man not yet shrincking, though well beaten with cold
and stormeye winters, in which he hath been patient of many necessityes
and attempts of his fortune to make his name and famely great.He is
supposed to be little lesse than eighty yeares old, I dare not saye how
much more; others saye he is of a tall stature and cleane lymbes, of a
sad aspect, rownd fatt visaged, with graie haires, but plaine and thin,
hanging upon his broad showlders; some few haires upon his chin, and so
on his upper lippe: he hath been a strong and able salvadge, synowye,
vigilant, ambitious, subtile to enlarge his dominions:... cruell he hath
been, and quarellous as well with his own wcrowanccs for trifles, and
that to strike a terrour and awe into them of his power and condicion,
as also with his neighbors in his younger days, though now delighted in
security and pleasure, and therefore stands upon reasonable conditions
of peace with all the great and absolute werowances about him, and is
likewise more quietly settled amongst his own."It was at this advanced age that he had the twelve favorite young wives
whom Strachey names.All his people obeyed him with fear and adoration,
presenting anything he ordered at his feet, and trembling if he frowned.His punishments were cruel; offenders were beaten to death before him,
or tied to trees and dismembered joint by joint, or broiled to death on
burning coals.Strachey wondered how such a barbarous prince should put
on such ostentation of majesty, yet he accounted for it as belonging to
the necessary divinity that doth hedge in a king: "Such is (I believe)
the impression of the divine nature, and however these (as other
heathens forsaken by the true light) have not that porcion of the
knowing blessed Christian spiritt, yet I am perswaded there is an
infused kind of divinities and extraordinary (appointed that it shall
be so by the King of kings) to such as are his ymedyate instruments on
earth."Here is perhaps as good a place as any to say a word or two about the
appearance and habits of Powhatan's subjects, as they were observed
by Strachey and Smith.A sort of religion they had, with priests or
conjurors, and houses set apart as temples, wherein images were kept
and conjurations performed, but the ceremonies seem not worship, but
propitiations against evil, and there seems to have been no conception
of an overruling power or of an immortal life.Smith describes a
ceremony of sacrifice of children to their deity; but this is doubtful,
although Parson Whittaker, who calls the Indians "naked slaves of the
devil," also says they sacrificed sometimes themselves and sometimes
their own children.An image of their god which he sent to England
"was painted upon one side of a toadstool, much like unto a deformed
monster."And he adds: "Their priests, whom they call Quockosoughs, are
no other but such as our English witches are."This notion I believe
also pertained among the New England colonists.There was a belief
that the Indian conjurors had some power over the elements, but not a
well-regulated power, and in time the Indians came to a belief in the
better effect of the invocations of the whites.In "Winslow's Relation,"
quoted by Alexander Young in his "Chronicles of the Pilgrim Fathers,"
under date of July, 1623, we read that on account of a great drought
a fast day was appointed.The
exercise lasted eight or nine hours.Before they broke up, owing to
prayers the weather was overcast.This the Indians seeing, admired the goodness of our God: "showing the
difference between their conjuration and our invocation in the name
of God for rain; theirs being mixed with such storms and tempests, as
sometimes, instead of doing them good, it layeth the corn flat on the
ground; but ours in so gentle and seasonable a manner, as they never
observed the like."It was a common opinion of the early settlers in Virginia, as it was of
those in New England, that the Indians were born white, but that they
got a brown or tawny color by the use of red ointments, made of earth
and the juice of roots, with which they besmear themselves either
according to the custom of the country or as a defense against the
stinging of mosquitoes.The women are of the same hue as the men, says
Strachey; "howbeit, it is supposed neither of them naturally borne so
discolored; for Captain Smith (lyving sometymes amongst them) affirmeth
how they are from the womb indifferent white, but as the men, so doe the
women," "dye and disguise themselves into this tawny cowler, esteeming
it the best beauty to be nearest such a kind of murrey as a sodden
quince is of," as the Greek women colored their faces and the ancient
Britain women dyed themselves with red; "howbeit [Strachey slyly adds]
he or she that hath obtained the perfected art in the tempering of this
collour with any better kind of earth, yearb or root preserves it not
yet so secrett and precious unto herself as doe our great ladyes their
oyle of talchum, or other painting white and red, but they frindly
communicate the secret and teach it one another."Thomas Lechford in his "Plain Dealing; or Newes from New England,"
London, 1642, says: "They are of complexion swarthy and tawny; their
children are borne white, but they bedawbe them with oyle and colors
presently."The men are described as tall, straight, and of comely proportions; no
beards; hair black, coarse, and thick; noses broad, flat, and full at
the end; with big lips and wide mouths', yet nothing so unsightly as
the Moors; and the women as having "handsome limbs, slender arms, pretty
hands, and when they sing they have a pleasant tange in their voices.The men shaved their hair on the right side, the women acting as
barbers, and left the hair full length on the left side, with a lock an
ell long."A Puritan divine--"New England's Plantation, 1630"--says of
the Indians about him, "their hair is generally black, and cut before
like our gentlewomen, and one lock longer than the rest, much like to
our gentlemen, which fashion I think came from hence into England."Their love of ornaments is sufficiently illustrated by an extract from
Strachey, which is in substance what Smith writes:

"Their eares they boare with wyde holes, commonly two or three, and in
the same they doe hang chaines of stayned pearle braceletts, of white
bone or shreeds of copper, beaten thinne and bright, and wounde up
hollowe, and with a grate pride, certaine fowles' legges, eagles,
hawkes, turkeys, etc., with beasts clawes, bears, arrahacounes,
squirrells, etc.The clawes thrust through they let hang upon the cheeke
to the full view, and some of their men there be who will weare in these
holes a small greene and yellow-couloured live snake, neere half a yard
in length, which crawling and lapping himself about his neck oftentymes
familiarly, he suffreeth to kisse his lippes.Others weare a dead ratt
tyed by the tayle, and such like conundrums."This is the earliest use I find of our word "conundrum," and the sense
it bears here may aid in discovering its origin.Powhatan is a very large figure in early Virginia history, and deserves
his prominence.He was an able and crafty savage, and made a good fight
against the encroachments of the whites, but he was no match for
the crafty Smith, nor the double-dealing of the Christians.There is
something pathetic about the close of his life, his sorrow for the death
of his daughter in a strange land, when he saw his territories overrun
by the invaders, from whom he only asked peace, and the poor privilege
of moving further away from them into the wilderness if they denied him
peace.In the midst of this savagery Pocahontas blooms like a sweet, wild rose.She was, like the Douglas, "tender and true."Wanting apparently the
cruel nature of her race generally, her heroic qualities were all of the
heart.No one of all the contemporary writers has anything but gentle
words for her.Barbarous and untaught she was like her comrades, but of
a gentle nature.Stripped of all the fictions which Captain Smith has
woven into her story, and all the romantic suggestions which later
writers have indulged in, she appears, in the light of the few facts
that industry is able to gather concerning her, as a pleasing and
unrestrained Indian girl, probably not different from her savage sisters
in her habits, but bright and gentle; struck with admiration at the
appearance of the white men, and easily moved to pity them, and so
inclined to a growing and lasting friendship for them; tractable and apt
to learn refinements; accepting the new religion through love for those
who taught it, and finally becoming in her maturity a well-balanced,
sensible, dignified Christian woman.According to the long-accepted story of Pocahontas, she did something
more than interfere to save from barbarous torture and death a stranger
and a captive, who had forfeited his life by shooting those who
opposed his invasion.In all times, among the most savage tribes and in
civilized society, women have been moved to heavenly pity by the sight
of a prisoner, and risked life to save him--the impulse was as natural
to a Highland lass as to an African maid.Pocahontas went further than
efforts to make peace between the superior race and her own.When the
whites forced the Indians to contribute from their scanty stores to the
support of the invaders, and burned their dwellings and shot them on
sight if they refused, the Indian maid sympathized with the exposed
whites and warned them of stratagems against them; captured herself by a
base violation of the laws of hospitality, she was easily reconciled to
her situation, adopted the habits of the foreigners, married one of her
captors, and in peace and in war cast in her lot with the strangers.History has not preserved for us the Indian view of her conduct.It was no doubt fortunate for her, though perhaps not for the colony,
that her romantic career ended by an early death, so that she always
remains in history in the bloom of youth.She did not live to be pained
by the contrast, to which her eyes were opened, between her own and her
adopted people, nor to learn what things could be done in the Christian
name she loved, nor to see her husband in a less honorable light than
she left him, nor to be involved in any way in the frightful massacre
of 1622.If she had remained in England after the novelty was over, she
might have been subject to slights and mortifying neglect.The struggles
of the fighting colony could have brought her little but pain.Dying
when she did, she rounded out one of the prettiest romances of all
history, and secured for her name the affection of a great nation, whose
empire has spared little that belonged to her childhood and race, except
the remembrance of her friendship for those who destroyed her people.)_, a small sort of canopy or umbrello, which women
  carry over their heads."And in Phillips's _New World of Words_, 7th ed., 1720--

  "_Umbrella_ or _Umbrello_, a kind of broad Fan or Skreen, which in
  hot countries People hold over their heads to keep off the Heat
  of the Sun; or such as are here commonly us'd by women to shelter
  them from Rain: Also, a wooden Frame cover'd with cloth or stuff,
  to keep off the sun from a window.")_, a small sort of canopy or umbrello, which women
  carry over their Heads, to shelter themselves from Rain," &c.

    T. C. T.).--Your correspondent L.
says, the true explanation of the circumstance of the nine of diamonds
being called the curse of Scotland is to be found in the game of Pope
Joan; but with all due deference to him, I must beg entirely to dissent
from this opinion, and to adhere to the notion of its origin being
traceable to the heraldic bearing of the family of Dalrymple, which are
or, on a saltire azure, _nine lozenges of the field_.There can be no doubt that John Dalrymple, 2nd Viscount and 1st Earl of
Stair, justly merited the appellation of the "Curse of Scotland," from
the part which he took in the horrible massacre of Glencoe, and from the
utter detestation in which he was held in consequence, and which
compelled him to resign the secretaryship in 1695.After a deliberate
inquiry by the commissioners had declared _him_ to be guilty of the
massacre, we cannot wonder that the man should be held up to scorn by
the most popular means which presented themselves; and the nine diamonds
in his shield would very naturally, being the insignia of his family, be
the best and most easily understood mode of perpetuating that
detestation in the minds of the people.).--Your
correspondents will find some information on this word in Ledwich's
_Antiquities of Ireland_, 2nd edit.279.; and in Wakeman's _Handbook
of Irish Antiquities_, p.Ledwich seems to derive the word from the
Teutonic _Bawen_, to construct and secure with branches of trees._Catacombs and Bone-houses_ (Vol.GATTY will find a
vivid description of the bone-house at Hythe, in Mr.Borrow's
_Lavengro_, vol.i. I have no reference to the exact page._Bacon and Fagan_ (Vol.).--The letters B and F are
doubtless convertible, as they are both labial letters, and can be
changed as _b_ and _p_ are so frequently.The word "batten" is used by Milton in the same sense as the word
"fatten."The Latin word "flo" is in English "to blow."The word "flush" means much the same as "blush."The Greek word [Greek: bremo] is in the Latin changed to "fremo."The Greek word [Greek: bora] = in English "forage."[Greek: Bilippos] for [Greek: Philippos]; [Greek:
Bryges] for [Greek: Phryges].[Greek: Phalaina] in Greek = "balaena" in Latin = "balene" in French.[Greek: Phero] in Greek = "to bear" in English."Frater" in Latin = "brother" in English.I think that we may fairly imply that the labials _p_, _b_, _f_, _v_,
may be interchanged, in the same way as the dental letters _d_ and _t_
are constantly; and I see no reason left to doubt that the word Bacon is
the same as the word Fagan.).--When A SUBSCRIBER TO YOUR
JOURNAL asks for some account of the origin of the phrase "to learn by
Heart," may he not find it in St."To learn by _memory_" (or by "_rote_") conveys to my own mind a very
different notion from what I conceive to be expressed by the words "To
learn by _heart_."Just as there is an evident difference between a
_gentleman in heart and feeling_, and a _gentleman in manners and
education only_; so there is a like difference (as I conceive) between
learning by heart and learning by rote; namely, the difference between a
_moral_, and a merely _intellectual_, operation of the mind.To learn by
_memory_ is to learn by _rote_, as a parrot: to learn by _heart_ is to
learn _morally--practically_.Thus, we say, we give our hearts to our
pursuits: we "love God with all our hearts," pray to Him "with the
spirit, and with the understanding," and "with the heart believe unto
righteousness:" we "ponder in our hearts," "muse in our hearts," and
"keep things in our hearts," i. e.).--Claudius Minois, in his Commentaries on
the _Emblemata_ of Alciatus, gives the following etymology of
"Auriga:"--

  "Auriga non dicitur ab auro, sed ab aureis: sunt enim aureae lora
  sive fraeni, qui equis ad aures alligantur; sicut oreae, quibus ora
  coercentur."--_Alciati Emblemata_, Emb.W. R.

  Hospitio Chelhamensi._Vineyards in England_ (Vol.).--Add to
the others _Wynyard_, so far north as Durham.Barker lived in West Square, St.George's Fields, a square directly opposite the Philanthropic Society's
chapel._Barker, the original Panorama Painter._--MR.CUNNINGHAM is quite
correct in stating Robert Barker to be the originator of the Panorama.His first work of the kind was a view of Edinburgh, of which city, I
believe, he was a native.On his death, in 1806, he was succeeded by his son, Mr.Henry Aston
Barker, the Mr.Barker referred to by A. G. This gentleman and his wife
(one of the daughters of the late Admiral Bligh) are both living, and
reside at Bitton, a village lying midway between this city and Bath.Bristol, June 2, 1851.).--ARUN's Query is fully
answered by a reference to Mrs.Jameson's _Sacred and Legendary Art_,
vol.379., where the bell is shown to be emblematic of the
saint's power to exorcise evil spirits, and reference is made to several
paintings (and an engraving given of one) in which it is represented.The phrase "A Tantony Pig" is also explained, for which see further
Halliwell's _Dict._Essay on the Irony of Sophocles, &c._ (Vol.).--Three
Queries by NEMO: 1.Connop Thirlwall, now Bishop of St.David's, is the author of the essay in question.39.:--_Errare_ mehercule _malo cum Platone... quam cum
istis vera sentire_; (again), Cicero, _ad Attic._, l. viii.7.:--_Malle_, quod dixerim, me _cum Pompeio vinci, quam cum istis
vincere_.The remark is Aristotle's; but the same had been said of
Homer by Plato himself:

  "Aristot.is
  reluctant to criticise Plato's doctrine of _Ideas_, [Greek: dia to
  philous andras eisagagein ta eide]: but, he adds, the truth must
  nevertheless be spoken:--[Greek: amphoin gar ontoin philoin,
  hosion protiman ten aletheian.]"Plato [_de Repub._, X. cap.]:--[Greek: Philia tis me
  kai aidos ek paidos echousa peri Homerou apokolyei legein... all'
  ou gar pro ge tes aletheias timeteos aner.]"_Achilles and the Tortoise_ (Vol.T. Coleridge has
explained this paradox in _The Friend_, vol.1850: a
note is subjoined regarding Aristotle's attempted solution, with a
quotation from Mr.de Quincey, in _Tate's Mag._, Sept.The
passage in _Leibnitz_ which [Greek: Idihotes] requires, is probably
"_Opera_, i. p._Early Rain called "Pride of the Morning"_ (Vol.).--In
connexion with this I would quote an expression in Keble's _Christian
Year_, "On the Rainbow," (25th Sun.):

      "_Pride of the_ dewy _Morning_!The swain's experienced eye
      From thee takes timely warning,
        Nor trusts else the gorgeous sky.").--JARLTZBERG will find one theory
on this subject in Dr.Asahel Grant's book, _The Nestorians; or, the
Lost Tribes_, published by Murray; 12mo."_Noli me Tangere_" (Vol.).--There is an
exquisite criticism upon the treatment of this subject by various
painters, accompanied by an etching from Titian, in that delightful
book, Mrs.Jameson's _Sacred and Legendary Art_, vol.360.;
and to the list of painters who have illustrated this subject, add
_Holbein_, in the Hampton Court Gallery.Jameson's _Handbook
to the Public Galleries_, pp."_The Sicilian Vespers_" (Vol.).--Your correspondent is
referred to _The War of the Sicilian Vespers_, by Amari, translated by
the Earl of Ellesmere, published very lately by Murray._Antiquity of Smoking_ (Vol ii., pp.B. says, alluding to
JARLTZBERG's references, "there is nothing in Solinus;" I read, however,
in Solinus, cap.1518), under the heading,
"Thracum mores, etc.":

  "Uterque sexus epulantes focos ambiunt, herbarum quas habent
  semine ignibus superjecto.Cujus nidore perculsi pro laetitia
  habent imitari ebrietatem sensibus sauciatis."JARLTZBERG's reference to Herod.36. supplies nothing to the point:
Herod.2. mentions the use of bone pipes, [Greek: physeteras
osteinous], by the Scythians, _in milking_; but Herodotus (iv.describes the orgies of the Scythians, who produced intoxicating fumes
by strewing hemp-seed upon red-hot stones, as the leaves and seed of the
Hasisha al fokara, or hemp-plant, are smoked in the East at the present
day.(See De Sacy, _Chrestom.Compare also
Plutarch de Fluviis (_de Hebro_, fr.), who speaks of a plant
resembling Origanum, from which the Thracians procured a stupefying
vapour, by burning the stalks:

  "[Greek: Epititheasi pyri... kai ten anapheromenen anathymiasin
  dechomenoi tais anapnoiais, karountai, kai eis bathyn hypnon
  katapherontai.]_Milton and the Calves-Head Club_ (Vol.Todd, in his
edition of Milton's _Works_, in 1809, p.158., mentions the rumour,
without expressing any opinion of its truth.I think he omits all
mention of it in his subsequent edition in 1826, and therefore hope he
has adopted the prevailing opinion that it is a contemptible libel.In a
note to the former edition is a reference to Kennett's _Register_, p.38., and to _"Private forms of Prayer fitted for the late sad times,"
&c._, 12mo., Lond., 1660, attributed to Dr.An anonymous
author, quoting the verbal assurance of "a certain active Whigg," would
be entitled to little credit in attacking the character of the living,
and ought surely to be scouted when assailing the memory of the dead.In
Lowndes' _Bib.Man._ it is stated that

  "This miserable trash has been attributed to the author of
  Hudibras."_Voltaire's Henriade_ (Vol.).--I have two translations of
this poem in English verse, in addition to that mentioned at p.330.,
viz., one in 4to., Anon., London, 1797; and one by Daniel French, 8vo.,
London, 1807.The former, which, as I collect from the preface, was
written by a lady and a foreigner, alludes to two previous translations,
one in blank verse (probably Lockman's), and the other in rhyme.).--Your correspondent C. H.
appears to give me too much credit for diligence, in having "searched"
after this document; for in truth I did nothing beyond writing to the
rector of the parish, the Rev.All that I can positively
say as to my letter, is, that it was intended to be courteous; that it
stated my reason for the inquiry; that it contained an apology for the
liberty taken in applying to a stranger; and that Mr.Sockett did not
honour me with any answer.I believe, however, that I asked whether the
register still existed; if so, what was its nature, and over what period
it extended; and whether it had been printed or described in any
antiquarian or topographical book.Perhaps some reader may have the means of giving information on these
points; and if he will do so through the medium of your periodical, he
will oblige both C. H. and myself.Or perhaps C. H. may be able to
inquire through some more private channel, in which case I should feel
myself greatly indebted to him if he would have the goodness to let me
know the result.).--The solution of J. H. M. to MR."Alternate layers of sliced pippins
and mutton steaks" might indeed make a pie, but not an apple-pie,
therefore this puzzling phrase must have had some other origin.An
ingenious friend of mine has suggested that it may perhaps be derived
from that expression which we meet with in one of the scenes of
_Hamlet_, "Cap a pied;" where it means perfectly appointed.The
transition from _cap a pied_, or "cap a pie," to _apple-pie_, has rather
a rugged appearance, orthographically, I admit; but the ear soon becomes
accustomed to it in pronunciation.ROBERT SNOW and several other correspondents have also
  suggested that the origin of the phrase "apple-pie order" is to
  be found in the once familiar "cap a pied."]_Durham Sword that killed the Dragon_ (Vol.).--For details
of the tradition, and an engraving of the sword, see Surtees' _History
of Durham_, vol.--Your correspondent F. E. M. will find
the word _Malentour_, or _Malaentour_, given in Edmondson's _Complete
Body of Heraldry_ as the motto of the family of Patten alias Wansfleet
(_sic_) of Newington, Middlesex: it is said to be borne on a scroll over
the crest, which is a Tower in flames.In the "Book of Mottoes" the motto ascribed to the name of Patten is
_Mal au Tour_, and the double meaning is suggested, "Misfortune to the
Tower," and "Unskilled in artifice."The arms that accompany it in Edmondson are nearly the same as those of
William Pattyn alias Waynflete, Bishop of Winchester and Lord Chancellor
temp.VI.--the founder of Magdalen College, Oxford._The Bellman and his History_ (Vol.).--Since my
former communication on this subject I have been referred to the cut of
the Bellman and his _Dog_ in Collier's _Roxburghe Ballads_, p.59.,
taken from the first edition of Dekker's _Belman of London_, printed in
1608."_Geographers on Afric's Downs_" (Vol.).--Is your
correspondent A. S. correct in his quotation?In a poem of Swift's, "On
Poetry, a Rhapsody," are these lines:--

      "So geographers, in Afric maps
      With savage pictures fill their gaps,
      And o'er unhabitable downs
      Place elephants for want of towns."_Swift's Works, with Notes by Dr.Hawksworth_, 1767,
      vol."_Trepidation talk'd_" (Vol.).--The words attributed to
Milton are--

      "That crystalline sphere whose balance weighs
      The trepidation talk'd, and that first moved."Paterson's comment, quoted by your correspondent, is exquisite: he
evidently thinks there were two trepidations, one _talked_, the other
_first moved_.The _trepidation_ (not a tremulous, but a turning or oscillating motion)
is a well-known hypothesis added by the Arab astronomers to Ptolemy, in
explanation of the precession of the equinoxes.This precession they
imagined would continue retrograde for a long period, after which it
would be direct for another long period, then retrograde again, and so
on.They, or their European followers, I forget which, invented the
_crystal_ heaven, an apparatus outside of the _starry_ heaven (these
cast-off phrases of astronomy have entered into the service of poetry,
and the _empyreal_ heaven with them), to cause this slow turning, or
trepidation, in the starry heaven.Some used _two_ crystal heavens, and
I suspect that Paterson, having some confused idea of this, fancied he
found them both in Milton's text.I need not say that your correspondent
is quite right in referring the words _first moved_ to the _primum
mobile_.Again, _balance_ in Milton never _weighs_.Where he says of Satan's army (i.),

          "In even balance down they light
      On the firm brimstone,"

he appears to mean that they were in regular order, with a right wing to
balance the left wing.The direct motion of the crystal heaven,
following and compensating the retrograde one, is the "balance" which
"_was_ the trepidation _called_;" and this I suspect to be the true
reading.The past tense would be quite accurate, for all the Ptolemaists
of Milton's time had abandoned the _trepidation_.As the text stands it
is nonsense; even if Milton did _dictate_ it, we know that he never
_saw_ it; and there are several passages of which the obscurity may be
due to his having had to rely on others._Registry of Dissenting Baptisms in Churches_ (Vol.).--I
forward extracts from the Registers of the parish of Saint Benedict in
this town relating to the baptism of Dissenters.Hussey, mentioned
in several of the entries, was Joseph Hussey, minister of a Dissenting
congregation here from 1691 to 1720.His meeting-house on Hog Hill (now
St.Andrew's Hill) in this town was pillaged by a Jacobite mob, 29th
May, 1716.He died in London in 1726, and was the author of several
works, which are now very scarce.)William the Son of Richard Jardine and
  Elisabeth his Wife was baptiz'd in a Private Congregation by Mr.Hussey in ye name of the Father the Son and the Holy Ghost."Witnesses, Robert Wilson, Richard Jardine.Henery the Son of John and Sarah Shipp was baptized in a
  Private Congregation by Mr.Elisabeth the
  Daughter of Richard and Elisabeth Jardine was born ye twenty-first
  day of January and baptized the second day of February 1698/99 in
  a Private Congregation.Walter the Son of Richard and Elisabeth Jardine born July
  23 and said to be baptized in a Separate Congregation by Mr.Elisabeth Daughter of Richard Jardine and Elisabeth his
  wife born October 7. and said to be baptized at a Private
  Congregation Novemb.Miram the Son of Thomas Short and Mary his Wife
  said to be baptized at a Separate Congregation.Jane the Daughter
  of Richard Jardine and Elizabeth his Wife said to be baptized at a
  Separate Congregation Dec.John the Son of Alexander Jardine and Elisabeth his Wife
  said to be baptized at a Separate Congregation, Mar.Alexander the Son of Alexander Jardine and... his Wife was
  as 'tis said baptized in a Separate Congregation July 1705.John the Son of Alexander Jardine and Elisabeth his Wife
  said to be baptized at a Private Congregation Dec.Jardine was
  said to be baptized in Separate Congregation.John ye Son of Bryan and Sarah Ellis was said to
  have been baptized in Separate Congregation.ye Son of Alexander and Elisa Jardine was
    said to be baptiz'd in a Separate Congregation."I have no recollection of having met with similar entries in any other
Parish Register.).--I think that upon further
consideration C. J. A. will find his egg to be merely that of a
blackbird.While the eggs of some birds are so constant in their
markings that to see one is to know all, others--at the head of which we
may place the sparrow, the gull tribe, the thrush, and the
blackbird--are as remarkable for the curious variety of their markings,
and even of the shades of their colouring.And every schoolboy's
collection will show that these distinctions will occur in the same
nest.I also believe that there has been some mistake about the nest, for
though, like the thrush, the blackbird coats the interior of its nest
with mud, &c., it does not, like that bird, leave this coating exposed,
but adds another lining of soft dried grass.PH***., asks
"What is Champak?"He will find a full description of the plant in Sir
William Jones's "Botanical Observations on Select Indian Plants," vol.In speaking of it, he says:

  "The strong aromatic scent of the gold-coloured Champac is thought
  offensive to the bees, who are never seen on its blossoms; but
  their elegant appearance on the black hair of the Indian women is
  mentioned by Rumphius; and both facts have supplied the Sanscrit
  poets with elegant allusions."D. C.




MISCELLANEOUS.NOTES ON BOOKS, SALES, CATALOGUES, ETC.The first volume issued to the members of the Camden Society in return
for the present year's subscription affords in more than one way
evidence of the utility of that Society.It is an account _of Moneys
received and paid for Secret Services of Charles II.and James II._, and
is edited by Mr.in the possession of William Selby
Lowndes, Esq.Of the value of the book as materials towards illustrating
the history of the period over which the payments extend, namely from
March 1679 to December 1688, there can be as little doubt, as there can
be that but for the Camden Society it never could have been published.As a publishing speculation it could not have tempted any bookseller;
even if its owner would have consented to its being so given to the
world: and yet that in the simple entries of payments to the Duchess of
Portsmouth, to "Mrs.Ellinor Gwynne," to "Titus Oates," to the
Pendrells, &c., will be found much to throw light upon many obscure
passages of this eventful period of our national history, it is probable
that future editions of Mr.Macaulay's brilliant narrative of it will
afford ample proof._The Antiquarian Etching Club_, which was instituted two or three years
since for the purpose of rescuing from oblivion, and preserving by means
of the graver, objects of antiquarian interest, has just issued the
first part of its publications for 1851.This contains twenty-one plates
of various degrees of merit, but all of great interest to the antiquary,
who looks rather for fidelity of representation than for artistic
effect.CATALOGUES RECEIVED.--G.High Holborn), Catalogue, Part
LI., containing many singularly Curious Books; James Darling's (Great
Queen Street, Lincoln's Inn Fields) Catalogue, Part 49. of Books chiefly
Theological.BOOKS AND ODD VOLUMES WANTED TO PURCHASE.ALBERT LUNEL, a Novel in 3 Vols.ADAMS' SERMON ON THE OBLIGATION OF VIRTUE.ENGRAVED PORTRAITS OF BISHOP BUTLER.DENS' THEOLOGIA MORALIS ET DOGMATICA.and V.

ART JOURNAL.Pilgrims of the
Rhine, Alice, and Zanoni.KIRBY'S BRIDGEWATER TREATISE.The _Second Vol._ of CHAMBER'S CYCLOPAEDIA OF ENGLISH LITERATURE.MITFORD'S HISTORY OF GREECE, continued by Davenport.Published by Tegg and Son, 1835.L'ABBE DE SAINT PIERRE, PROJET DE PAIX PERPETUELLE.AIKIN'S SELECT WORKS OF THE BRITISH POETS.CAXTON'S REYNARD THE FOX (Percy Society Edition).Deux Livres de la Haine de Satan et des Malins Esprits
contre l'Homme.CHEVALIER RAMSAY, ESSAI DE POLITIQUE, ou l'on traite de la Necessite, de
l'Origine, des Droits, des Bornes et des differentes Formes de la
Souverainete, selon les Principes de l'Auteur de Telemaque.La Haye, without date, but printed in 1719.Second Edition, under the title "Essai Philosophique sur le
Gouvernement Civil, selon les Principes de Fenelon," 12mo.THE CRY OF THE OPPRESSED, being a True and Tragical Account of the
unparalleled Sufferings of Multitudes of Poor Imprisoned Debtors, &c.
London, 1691.MARKHAM'S HISTORY OF FRANCE.MARKHAM'S HISTORY OF ENGLAND.HUME'S HISTORY OF ENGLAND.RUSSELL'S EUROPE FROM THE PEACE OF UTRECHT.[Star symbol] Letters, stating particulars and lowest price,
  _carriage free_, to be sent to MR.BELL, Publisher of "NOTES AND
  QUERIES," 186._We cannot say whether the Queries referred to by our
correspondent have been received, unless he informs us to what subjects
they related._

C. P. PH*** _is thanked for his corrigenda to_ Vol._The proper reading of the line referred to, which is from Nat.Lee's_ Alexander the Great, _is_,--

      "When Greeks joined Greeks, then was the tug of war."_See_ "NOTES AND QUERIES," No._The oft quoted lines_,--

      "He that fights and runs away," &c.,

_by Sir John Menzies, have already been fully illustrated in our
columns.'s _communication respecting this family_,
No.469., _for_ "-_a_pham" _and_ "Me_a_pham" read "-_o_pham"
_and_ "Me_o_pham."CIRCULATION OF OUR PROSPECTUSES BY CORRESPONDENTS._The suggestion of_
T. E. H., _that by way of hastening the period when we shall be
justified in permanently enlarging our Paper to 24 pages, we should
forward copies of our_ PROSPECTUS _to correspondents who would kindly
enclose them to such friends as they think likely, from their love of
literature, to become subscribers to_ "NOTES AND QUERIES," _has already
been acted upon by several friendly correspondents, to whom we are
greatly indebted.We shall be most happy to forward Prospectuses for
this purpose to any other of our friends able and willing thus to assist
towards increasing our circulation._

REPLIES RECEIVED.--_Trepidation talked--Carling Sunday--To learn by
Heart--Abel represented with Horns--Moore's Almanack--Dutch
Literature--Prenzie--Pope Joan--Death--Gillingham--Lines on the
Temple--Champac--Children at a Birth--Mark for a Dollar--Window
Tax--Tradescants--Banks Family--A regular Mull--Theory of the Earth's
Form--Heronsewes--Verse Lyon--Brittanicus--By the Bye--Baldrocks--A
Kemble Pipe--Republic of San Marino--Mythology of the Stars._

VOLS._and_ II., _each with very copious Index, may still be had,
price 9s.each._

NOTES AND QUERIES _may be procured, by order, of all Booksellers and
Newsvenders.It is published at noon on Friday, so that our country
Subscribers ought not to experience any difficulty in procuring it
regularly.Many of the country Booksellers, &c., are, probably, not yet
aware of this arrangement, which will enable them to receive_ NOTES AND
QUERIES _in their Saturday parcels._

_All communications for the Editor of_ NOTES AND QUERIES _should be
addressed to the care of_ MR.Just published, in One handsome Volume, 8vo., profusely
illustrated with Engravings by JEWITT, price One Guinea,

  SOME ACCOUNT OF DOMESTIC ARCHITECTURE IN ENGLAND, from the
  CONQUEST to the END of the THIRTEENTH CENTURY, with numerous
  Illustrations of Existing Remains from Original Drawings.Interspersed with some Notices of Domestic Manners during the same
  Period.By T. HUDSON TURNER.Oxford: JOHN HENRY PARKER; and 377.THE LANSDOWNE SHAKSPEARE.On July 1st will be published, Part I., price 4s.,

  To be completed in Four Monthly Parts, to form one Handsome
  Volume, crown 8vo.This beautiful and unique edition of Shakspeare will be produced
  under the immediate and auspicious encouragement of the Most Noble
  the Marquis of Lansdowne.It is anticipated that its triumph as a Specimen of the Art of
  Printing will only be exceeded by the facility and clearness which
  the new arrangement of the text will afford in reading the works
  of "the mightiest of intellectual painters."Its portability will
  render it as available for travelling, as its beauty will render
  it an ornament to the drawing-room.Every care has been taken to render the text the most perfect yet
  produced.The various folios and older editions, together with the
  modern ones of Johnson, Steevens, Malone, Boswell, Knight, and
  Collier (also Dyce's Remarks on the two latter), have been
  carefully compared and numerous errors corrected.The Portrait, after Droeshout, will be engraved by H. ROBINSON in
  his first style.London: WILLIAM WHITE, Pall Mall; and to be obtained of all
  Booksellers.NIMROUD OBELISK.--A reduced _Model_ of this interesting Obelisk is just
published, having the Cuneiform Writing, and five rows of figures on
each side, carefully copied from that sent by Dr.The Model is in Black Marble, like the original, and stands
twenty inches high.Strand, London, will be happy to
show a copy, and receive Subscribers' names.He has also Models of
several Egyptian Obelisks.Price 2_s._ 6_d._; by Post 3_s._

  ILLUSTRATIONS AND ENQUIRIES RELATING To Mesmerism.Part I. By the
  REV.S. R. MAITLAND, DD.Sometime Librarian to the
  late Archbishop of Canterbury, and Keeper of the MSS."One of the most valuable and interesting pamphlets we ever
    read."--_Morning Herald._

    "This publication, which promises to be the commencement of a
    larger work, will well repay serious perusal."--_Ir.Journ._

    "A small pamphlet in which he throws a startling light on the
    practices of modern Mesmerism."--_Nottingham Journal._

    "Dr.Maitland, we consider, has here brought Mesmerism to the
    'touchstone of truth,' to the test of the standard of right or
    wrong.We thank him for this first instalment of his inquiry, and
    hope that he will not long delay the remaining portions."--_London
    Medical Gazette._

    "The Enquiries are extremely curious, we should indeed say
    important.That relating to the Witch of Endor is one of the most
    successful we ever read.We cannot enter into particulars in this
    brief notice; but we would strongly recommend the pamphlet even to
    those who care nothing about Mesmerism, or _angry_ (for it has
    come to this at last) with the subject."--_Dublin Evening Post._

    "We recommend its general perusal as being really an endeavour, by
    one whose position gives him the best facilities, to ascertain the
    genuine character of Mesmerism, which is so much
    disputed."--_Woolmer's Exeter Gazette._

    "Dr.Maitland has bestowed a vast deal of attention on the subject
    for many years past, and the present pamphlet is in part the
    result of his thoughts and inquiries.There is a good deal in it
    which we should have been glad to quote... but we content
    ourselves with referring our readers to the pamphlet
    itself."--_Brit.Mag._

  W. STEPHENSON, 12. and 13.of

  THE JUDGES OF ENGLAND.By EDWARD FOSS, F.S.A.Comprehending the
  period from Edward I. to Richard III., 1272 to 1485.Lately published, price 28_s._

  VOLUMES I. and II.of the same Work; from the Conquest to the end
  of Henry III., 1066 to 1272."A work in which a subject of great historical importance is
    treated with the care, diligence, and learning it deserves; in
    which Mr.Foss has brought to light many points previously
    unknown, corrected many errors, and shown such ample knowledge of
    his subject as to conduct it successfully through all the
    intricacies of a difficult investigation; and such taste and
    judgment as will enable him to quit, when occasion requires, the
    dry details of a professional inquiry, and to impart to his work
    as he proceeds, the grace and dignity of a philosophical
    history."--_Gent.Mag._

  London: LONGMAN, BROWN, GREEN, and LONGMANS.Just published, with Twelve Engravings, and Seven Woodcuts royal 8vo.10_s._, cloth,

  THE SEVEN PERIODS OF ENGLISH ARCHITECTURE DEFINED AND ILLUSTRATED.An Elementary Work, affording at a single glance a comprehensive
  view of the History of English Architecture, from the Heptarchy to
  the Reformation.By EDMUND SHARPE, M.A., Architect.Sharpe's reasons for advocating changes in the nomenclature
    of Rickman are worthy of attention, coming from an author who has
    entered very deeply into the analysis of Gothic architecture, and
    who has, in his 'Architectural Parallels,' followed a method of
    demonstration which has the highest possible
    value."--_Architectural Quarterly Review._

    "The author of one of the noblest architectural works of modern
    times.His 'Architectural Parallels' are worthy of the best days
    of art, and show care and knowledge of no common kind.All his
    lesser works have been marked in their degree by the same careful
    and honest spirit.His attempt to discriminate our architecture
    into periods and assign to it a new nomenclature, is therefore
    entitled to considerable respect."--_Guardian._

  London: GEORGE BELL, 186.Now ready, price 5_s._ illustrated, No.I. of

  THE ARCHITECTURAL QUARTERLY REVIEW.Architectural Nomenclature and Classification.Inventors and Authorship in relation to Architecture.RETROSPECTIVE REVIEW:--Chevreul on Colour.NEW INVENTIONS:--Machinery, Tools, and Instruments.--Materials,
      and Contrivances; Self-acting Dust-shoot Door; Removal of Smoke
      by Sewers, &c.&c.--Patents and Designs registered, &c.&c.

  GEORGE BELL, 186.IX., imperial 4to., price 2_s._ 6_d._

  DETAILS OF GOTHIC ARCHITECTURE, measured and drawn from existing
  Examples by J. K. COLLING, Architect.Arches from Leverington Church, Cambridgeshire.Tracery and Details from Altar Screen, Beverley Minster.Printed by THOMAS CLARK SHAW, of No.New
Street Square, in the Parish of St.Bride in the City of London; and
published by GEORGE BELL, of No.Fleet Street, in the Parish of St.Dunstan in the West, in the City of London, Publisher, at No.Fleet
Street aforesaid.--Saturday, June 14, 1851.List of volumes and pages in "Notes & Queries",   Vol.I-III:

      +---------------+-------------------+-----------+-------------+
      | Notes & Queries Vol.|
      +---------------+-------------------+-----------+-------------+
      | Vol., No.| Date, Year        | Pages     | PG # xxxxx  |
      +---------------+-------------------+-----------+-------------+
      | Vol.1 | November  3, 1849 |   1 -  17 | PG #  8603  |
      | Vol.2 | November 10, 1849 |  18 -  32 | PG # 11265  |
      | Vol.3 | November 17, 1849 |  33 -  46 | PG # 11577  |
      | Vol.4 | November 24, 1849 |  49 -  63 | PG # 13513  |
      +---------------+-------------------+-----------+-------------+
      | Vol.5 | December  1, 1849 |  65 -  80 | PG # 11636  |
      | Vol.6 | December  8, 1849 |  81 -  95 | PG # 13550  |
      | Vol.7 | December 15, 1849 |  97 - 112 | PG # 11651  |
      | Vol.8 | December 22, 1849 | 113 - 128 | PG # 11652  |
      | Vol.9 | December 29, 1849 | 130 - 144 | PG # 13521  |
      +---------------+-------------------+-----------+-------------+
      | Vol.10 | January   5, 1850 | 145 - 160 | PG #        |
      | Vol.11 | January  12, 1850 | 161 - 176 | PG # 11653  |
      | Vol.12 | January  19, 1850 | 177 - 192 | PG # 11575  |
      | Vol.13 | January  26, 1850 | 193 - 208 | PG # 11707  |
      +---------------+-------------------+-----------+-------------+
      | Vol.14 | February  2, 1850 | 209 - 224 | PG # 13558  |
      | Vol.15 | February  9, 1850 | 225 - 238 | PG # 11929  |
      | Vol.16 | February 16, 1850 | 241 - 256 | PG # 16193  |
      | Vol.17 | February 23, 1850 | 257 - 271 | PG # 12018  |
      +---------------+-------------------+-----------+-------------+
      | Vol.18 | March     2, 1850 | 273 - 288 | PG # 13544  |
      | Vol.19 | March     9, 1850 | 289 - 309 | PG # 13638  |
      | Vol.20 | March    16, 1850 | 313 - 328 | PG # 16409  |
      | Vol.21 | March    23, 1850 | 329 - 343 | PG # 11958  |
      | Vol.22 | March    30, 1850 | 345 - 359 | PG # 12198  |
      +---------------+-------------------+-----------+-------------+
      | Vol.23 | April     6, 1850 | 361 - 376 | PG # 12505  |
      | Vol.24 | April    13, 1850 | 377 - 392 | PG # 13925  |
      | Vol.25 | April    20, 1850 | 393 - 408 | PG # 13747  |
      | Vol.26 | April    27, 1850 | 409 - 423 | PG # 13822  |
      +---------------+-------------------+-----------+-------------+
      | Vol.27 | May       4, 1850 | 425 - 447 | PG # 13712  |
      | Vol.28 | May      11, 1850 | 449 - 463 | PG # 13684  |
      | Vol.29 | May      18, 1850 | 465 - 479 | PG # 15197  |
      | Vol.30 | May      25, 1850 | 481 - 495 | PG # 13713  |
      +---------------+-------------------+-----------+-------------+
      | Notes & Queries Vol.|
      +----------------+--------------------+---------+-------------+
      | Vol., No.| Date, Year         | Pages   | PG # xxxxx  |
      +----------------+--------------------+---------+-------------+
      | Vol.31 | June  1, 1850      |   1-15  | PG # 12589  |
      | Vol.32 | June  8, 1850      |  17-32  | PG # 15996  |
      | Vol.33 | June 15, 1850      |  33-48  | PG # 26121  |
      | Vol.34 | June 22, 1850      |  49-64  | PG # 22127  |
      | Vol.35 | June 29, 1850      |  65-79  | PG # 22126  |
      +----------------+--------------------+---------+-------------+
      | Vol.36 | July  6, 1850      |  81-96  | PG # 13361  |
      | Vol.37 | July 13, 1850      |  97-112 | PG # 13729  |
      | Vol.38 | July 20, 1850      | 113-128 | PG # 13362  |
      | Vol.39 | July 27, 1850      | 129-143 | PG # 13736  |
      +----------------+--------------------+---------+-------------+
      | Vol.40 | August  3, 1850    | 145-159 | PG # 13389  |
      | Vol.41 | August 10, 1850    | 161-176 | PG # 13393  |
      | Vol.42 | August 17, 1850    | 177-191 | PG # 13411  |
      | Vol.43 | August 24, 1850    | 193-207 | PG # 13406  |
      | Vol.44 | August 31, 1850    | 209-223 | PG # 13426  |
      +----------------+--------------------+---------+-------------+
      | Vol.45 | September  7, 1850 | 225-240 | PG # 13427  |
      | Vol.46 | September 14, 1850 | 241-256 | PG # 13462  |
      | Vol.47 | September 21, 1850 | 257-272 | PG # 13936  |
      | Vol.48 | September 28, 1850 | 273-288 | PG # 13463  |
      +----------------+--------------------+---------+-------------+
      | Vol.49 | October  5, 1850   | 289-304 | PG # 13480  |
      | Vol.50 | October 12, 1850   | 305-320 | PG # 13551  |
      | Vol.51 | October 19, 1850   | 321-351 | PG # 15232  |
      | Vol.52 | October 26, 1850   | 353-367 | PG # 22624  |
      +----------------+--------------------+---------+-------------+
      | Vol.53 | November  2, 1850  | 369-383 | PG # 13540  |
      | Vol.54 | November  9, 1850  | 385-399 | PG # 22138  |
      | Vol.55 | November 16, 1850  | 401-415 | PG # 15216  |
      | Vol.56 | November 23, 1850  | 417-431 | PG # 15354  |
      | Vol.57 | November 30, 1850  | 433-454 | PG # 15405  |
      +----------------+--------------------+---------+-------------+
      | Vol.58 | December  7, 1850  | 457-470 | PG # 21503  |
      | Vol.59 | December 14, 1850  | 473-486 | PG # 15427  |
      | Vol.60 | December 21, 1850  | 489-502 | PG # 24803  |
      | Vol.61 | December 28, 1850  | 505-524 | PG # 16404  |
      +----------------+--------------------+---------+-------------+
      | Notes & Queries Vol.|
      +-----------------+-------------------+---------+-------------+
      | Vol., No.| Date, Year        | Pages   | PG # xxxxx  |
      +-----------------+-------------------+---------+-------------+
      | Vol.62 | January  4, 1851  |  1-15   | PG # 15638  |
      | Vol.63 | January 11, 1851  | 17-31   | PG # 15639  |
      | Vol.64 | January 18, 1851  | 33-47   | PG # 15640  |
      | Vol.65 | January 25, 1851  | 49-78   | PG # 15641  |
      +-----------------+-------------------+---------+-------------+
      | Vol.66 | February  1, 1851 | 81-95   | PG # 22339  |
      | Vol.67 | February  8, 1851 | 97-111  | PG # 22625  |
      | Vol.68 | February 15, 1851 | 113-127 | PG # 22639  |
      | Vol.69 | February 22, 1851 | 129-159 | PG # 23027  |
      +-----------------+-------------------+---------+-------------+
      | Vol.70 | March  1, 1851    | 161-174 | PG # 23204  |
      | Vol.71 | March  8, 1851    | 177-200 | PG # 23205  |
      | Vol.72 | March 15, 1851    | 201-215 | PG # 23212  |
      | Vol.73 | March 22, 1851    | 217-231 | PG # 23225  |
      | Vol.74 | March 29, 1851    | 233-255 | PG # 23282  |
      +-----------------+-------------------+---------+-------------+
      | Vol.75 | April  5, 1851    | 257-271 | PG # 23402  |
      | Vol.76 | April 12, 1851    | 273-294 | PG # 26896  |
      | Vol.77 | April 19, 1851    | 297-311 | PG # 26897  |
      | Vol.78 | April 26, 1851    | 313-342 | PG # 26898  |
      +-----------------+-------------------+---------+-------------+
      | Vol.79 | May  3, 1851      | 345-359 | PG # 26899  |
      | Vol.80 | May 10, 1851      | 361-382 | PG # 32495  |
      | Vol.81 | May 17, 1851      | 385-399 | PG # 29318  |
      | Vol.82 | May 24, 1851      | 401-415 | PG # 28311  |
      | Vol.83 | May 31, 1851      | 417-461 | PG # 36835  |
      | Vol.84 | June 7, 1851      | 441-472 | PG # 37379  |
      +-----------------+-------------------+---------+-------------+
      | Vol I. Index.1849-May 1850]            | PG # 13536  |
      | INDEX TO THE SECOND VOLUME.MAY-DEC., 1850    | PG # 13571  |
      | INDEX TO THE THIRD VOLUME.Gough, in
his Topography, records the benefits he conferred on that county.Such a
testimony as the above, from such a man as Mr.Boyle, is, indeed,
honourable.The learned Boerhaave tells us who Mr.Boyle was: "Boyle,
the ornament of his age and country, succeeded to the genius and
enquiries of the great Verulam.Which of all Boyle's writings shall I
recommend?To him we owe the secrets of fire, air, water,
animals, vegetables, fossils, so that from his works may be reduced the
whole system of natural knowledge."Beale resided chiefly at Hereford, (1660) when he was made
Rector of Yeovil, Somersetshire, where he died in 1683, at the age of
eighty.Loudon's Encyclopaedia of
Gardening.Evelyn, in the greatest of his works, (his Sylva,) adds
to it Dr.William Brome, a principal ornament of Christ Church, a native of
Herefordshire, and who afterwards lived in retirement at Ewithington, in
that county, "formed the plan (says the late Mr.Dunster in his edition
of Phillips's Cyder) of writing the Provincial History of his native
county, a work for which he was eminently qualified, not only by his
great and general learning, but as being particularly an excellent
naturalist and antiquary.After having made a considerable progress, he
abandoned his design, and, which is still more to be lamented, destroyed
the valuable materials which he had collected."I merely introduce this
to state, that from Mr.Brome, much information, in all likelihood,
might have been gathered respecting Dr.We have to regret, that
time and mortality, have now obliterated every fading trace of
contemporary recollection of a man, who, in his day, was so highly
esteemed.[32]

ROBERT SHARROCK, Archdeacon of Winchester, and Rector of Bishop's
Waltham, and of Horewood.Wood, in his Athenae, says, "he was accounted
learned in divinity, in the civil and common law, and very knowing in
vegetables, and all appertaining thereunto.He published The History of
the Propagation and Improvement of Vegetables, by the concurrence of art
and nature._Oxford_, 1660, 8vo., and 1672, 8vo.: an account of which
book you may see in the Phil.He also
published Improvements to the Art of Gardening; or an exact Treatise on
Plants._London_, 1694; folio.This must have been a posthumous work, as
he died in 1684.---- ILIFFE, in 1670, published in 12mo.JOHN REA, the author of "Flora, Ceres, and Pomona."It is enriched by a
frontispiece engraved by D. Loggan.He dedicates the above folio, in
1665, to Lord Gerard, of Gerard's Bromley.His lordship, it seems, about
that time, determined to erect that noble mansion, which Plot has given
us a plate of; and Rea, in this folio, enumerates those plants, fruits,
and flowers, which he thinks this then-intended garden ought to be
furnished with; and a small bit, or a piece or parcel, of which once
most sumptuous garden, Plot gives us."Altho' (says Rea) our country
cannot boast the benignity of that beautiful planet which meliorates
their fruit in Italy, France, and Spain; yet, by reflection from good
walks, well gravelled walks, the choice of fit kinds, we may plentifully
partake the pleasure, and yearly enjoy the benefit, of many delicious
fruits: as also the admiration and delight in the infinite varieties of
elegant forms, various colours, and numerous kinds of noble plants, and
beautiful flowers, some whereof have been heretofore handled by a
renowned person of your name; but since his time, nature hath discovered
many new varieties, not known to former ages, as I hope shortly will
appear in your own collections, gloriously adorning your spacious
garden, which I wish may correspond, both in fashion and furniture, with
that noble structure to which it appertaineth.Accept then, my honoured
lord, this humble offering, which may possibly live to do you service,
when I am dust and ashes, and, according to my highest ambition, remain
as a testimony of my sincerest gratitude for the many favours I have
received from your honour, your most accomplished lady, and that noble
family from whence she is descended.I should here add my prayers for
your honour's preservation, did I not reserve them for my morning
sacrifice, daily to be presented to the immortal deities by him that
is, your most humble and most devoted servant, John Rea."He addresses
also a long poem to Lady Gerard, on Flora inviting her to walk in this
garden, in which he celebrates her "bright beauty."Self-loved _Narcissus_, if he look
   On your fair eyes, will leave the brook,
   And undeceived, soon will rue
   He ever any loved but you.If to the _hyacinth_ you turn,
   He smiles, and quite forgets to mourn.The enamoured _heliotrope_ will run
   To your bright stars, and leave the sun.Our _lilies_ here do make no show,
   They whiter on your bosom grow,
   And _violets_ appear but stains,
   Compared with your bluer veins.*       *       *       *       *

   New-blown buds, all scents excelling,
   As you pass by, invite your smelling.*       *       *       *       *

   Mark the glorious _tulips_ rise
   In various dress, to take your eyes,
   And how the fairest and all the rest
   Strive which shall triumph on your breast.*       *       *       *       *

   Thus your rich beauty and rare parts
   Excel all flowers, exceed all arts.Live then, sweet lady, to inherit
   Your father's fortune, and his spirit,
   Your mother's face and virtuous mind.[33]

Throughout this long poem, John Rea's warmth much exceeds that of the
most romantic lovers.One of the latter only observes, that the flowers
courted the tread of his fair one's foot; that the sky grew more
beautiful in her presence, and that the atmosphere borrowed new
splendour from her eyes.Rea's passion seems even warmer than this.In
his address to the reader, he says, "I have continued my affection to
this honest recreation, without companion or encouragement; and now in
my old age, (wearied and weaned from other delights) find myself more
happy in this retired solitude, than in all the bustles and busie
employments of my passed days."He thus concludes his book:--

              ---- this is all I crave:
   Some gentle hand with flowers may strew my grave,
   And with one sprig of bays my herse befriend,
   When as my life, as now my book, doth end.Rea gives us also another very long poem, being that of "Flora to the
Ladies," which he thus concludes:--

   Silent as flow'rs may you in virtues grow,
   Till rip'ning time shall make you fit to blow,
   Then flourish long, and seeding leave behind
   A numerous offspring of your dainty kind;
   And when fate calls, have nothing to repent,
   But die like flow'rs, virtuous and innocent.Then all your fellow flow'rs, both fair and sweet,
   Will come, with tears, to deck your winding-sheet;
   Hang down their pensive heads so dew'd, and crave
   To be transplanted to your perfum'd grave.These love poems seem all to have been written in his old age; and that
passion causes him thus to open his first book:--"Love was the inventor,
and is still the maintainer, of every noble science.It is chiefly that
which hath made my flowers and trees to flourish, though planted in a
barren desert, and hath brought me to the knowledge I now have in plants
and planting; for indeed it is impossible for any man to have any
considerable collection of plants to prosper, unless he love them: for
neither the goodness of the soil, nor the advantage of the situation,
will do it, without the master's affection; it is that which renders
them strong and vigorous; without which they will languish and decay
through neglect, and soon cease to do him service.I have seen many
gardens of the new model, in the hands of unskilful persons, with good
walls, walks and grass-plots; but in the most essential adornments so
deficient, that a green meadow is a more delightful object; there nature
alone, without the aid of art, spreads her verdant carpets,
spontaneously embroidered with many pretty plants and pleasing flowers,
far more inviting than such an immured nothing.And as noble fountains,
grottoes, statues, &c. are excellent ornaments and marks of
magnificence, so all such dead works in gardens, ill done, are little
better than blocks in the way to intercept the sight, but not at all to
satisfy the understanding.A choice collection of living beauties, rare
plants, flowers and fruits, are indeed the wealth, glory, and delight of
a garden."He describes no less than one
hundred and ninety different sorts.He calls them "Flora's choicest
jewels, and the most glorious ornaments of the best gardens.Such is
their rarity and excellence, and so numerous are the varieties, that it
is not possible any one person in the world should be able to express,
or comprehend the half of them, every new spring discovering many new
diversities never before observed, either arising from the seeds of some
choice kinds, the altering of off-sets, or by the busy and secret
working of nature upon several self-colours, in different soils and
situations, together with the help of art."[34] Switzer says, "the
practical and plain method in which he has delivered his precepts, are
admirable."There is a second edition of the Flora, _with additions_.What these are, I know not; unless they are the cuts of parterres, which
were omitted in the first edition.JOHN WORLIDGE published his Systema Agriculturae in folio, 1668; second
edition in 1675, folio: fourth edition in 1687, folio.An octavo edition
1716, with its English title of "A compleat System of Husbandry and
Gardening, or the Gentleman's Companion in the Business and Pleasures of
a Country life."In the preface to this, and indeed throughout all his
works, we may trace his fondness for gardens.The great variety of rural
subjects treated on in this book, may be seen in its Index, or full
Analysis.In his second section "Of the profits and pleasures of
fruit-trees," he strongly enforces the planting of vineyards.His Systema Horticulturae, or the Art of Gardening, was published in
1677, 8vo.; a third edition 1688; a fourth edition 1719.Vinetum Britannicum, or a Treatise on Cyder, and other Wines and Drinks,
extracted from Fruits: to which is added, a Discourse on Bees; 8vo.,
_second impression, much enlarged_, 1678.He therein thus paints the
pleasures of a garden:--"The exercises of planting, grafting, pruning,
and walking in them, very much tendeth to salubrity, as also doth the
wholesome airs found in them, which have been experienced not only to
cure several distempers incident to our nature, but to tend towards the
prolongation of life.For nothing can be more available to health and
long life, than a sedate quiet mind, attended with these rural delights,
a healthful air, and moderate exercise, which may here be found in all
seasons of the year."He also published, The Second Parts of Systema Agriculturae, 8vo.The Second Part of Vinetum Britannicum, 8vo.His attachment to whatever concerns a rural life, shines through most of
his pages.Take the few following for a specimen:--

In his description of the month of _April_, he says, "In this month your
garden appears in its greatest beauty, the blossoms of the fruit-trees
prognosticate the plenty of fruits for all the succeeding summer months,
unless prevented by untimely frosts or blights.The bees now buz in
every corner of your garden to seek for food; the birds sing in every
bush, and the sweet nightingale tunes her warbling notes in your
solitary walks, whilst the other birds are at their rest.The beasts of
the woods look out into the plains, and the fishes of the deep sport
themselves in the shallow waters.The air is wholesome, and the earth
pleasant, beginning now to be cloathed in nature's best array, exceeding
all art's glory.This is the time that whets the wits of several nations
to prove their own country to have been the _Garden of Eden_, or the
terrestrial paradise, however it appears all the year besides.In case
unseasonable weather hinders not, the pleasantness and salubrity of the
air now tempts the sound to the free enjoyment of it, rather than to
enjoy the pleasures of _Bacchus_ in a smoaky corner."In his month of
_May_, he says, "He that delights not in physick, let him now exercise
himself in the _garden_, and take the smell of the earth with the rising
sun, than which to the virtuously inclined, there is nothing more
pleasant; for now is nature herself full of mirth, and the senses stored
with delights, and variety of pleasures."His month of _July_ thus
recommends itself: "Grotts and shady groves are more seasonable to
recreate yourself in than the open air, unless it be late in the
evening, or early in the morning, to such that can afford time to take a
nap after noon."he observes, that "A fair stream or current flowing
through or near your _garden_, adds much to the glory and pleasure of
it: on the banks of it you may plant several aquatick exoticks, and have
your seats or places of repose under their umbrage, and there satiate
yourself with the view of the curling streams, and its nimble
inhabitants.These gliding streams refrigerate the air in a summer
evening, and render their banks so pleasant, that they become resistless
charms to your senses, by the murmuring noise, the undulation of the
water, the verdant banks and shades over them, the sporting fish
confined within your own limits, the beautiful swans; and by the
pleasant notes of singing birds, that delight in groves, on the banks of
such rivulets."[35]

And in his preface to this last work, he says, "My principal design
being not only to excite or animate such as have fair estates, and
pleasant seats in the country, to adorn and beautifie them; but to
encourage the honest and plain countryman in the improvement of his
Ville, by enlarging the bounds and limits of his _Gardens_, as well as
his _Orchards_, for the encrease of such esculent plants as may be
useful and beneficial to himself and his neighbors."FRANCIS DROPE, B. D., who died at Oxford, and whose father was Vicar of
Cumner, in Berkshire.Wood, in his Athenae, says, "he hath written on a
subject which he much delighted in, and wherein he spent much time, but
which was not published till his death: A short and sure guide to the
practice of raising, and ordering of fruit trees, _Oxford_, 1672, 12mo.,
a large and laudable account of which you may see in the Phil.MOSES COOKE, Gardener to the Earl of Essex, at Cashiobury, afterwards a
partner with Lucre, Field and London, in the Brompton Park Nursery.He
wrote "The Art of making Cyder," published in Mr.The
manner of raising Forest Trees, 4to.in
1717, 1724, and 1770.Evelyn (speaking of Cashiobury) says, "The
gardens are very rare, and cannot be otherwise, having so skilful an
artist to govern them as Cooke."Moses Cooke, in his preface, justly
says, "Planting and Gardening add much to the health and content of man;
and these two jewels no man that well understands himself, would
willingly be without; for it is not only set down for a certain truth by
many wise men, but confirmed by experience.The learned Lord Bacon
commends the following of the plough in fresh ground, to be very
healthful for man; but more, the digging in gardens."His pages, here
and there, record some of "the fine stately trees that we have growing
in the woods at Cashiobury."Cooke unfortunately fancied himself a poet;
but gratitude to his noble master, and loyalty to his king, seem to have
been the motives of his inspiration."One night (methought) walking up
one of my Lord's lime-walks, I heard the grateful trees thus paying the
tribute of their thanks to his lordship:--

   Like pyramids our stately tops we'll raise,
   To sing our noble benefactor's praise;
   Freshly we will to after-ages show
   What noble Essex did on us bestow:
   For we our very being owe to him,
   Or else we had long since intombed been
   In crop of bird, or in beast's belly found,
   Or met our death neglected on the ground.By him we cherish'd were with dung and spade,
   For which we'll recompense him with our shade.And since his kindness saw us prun'd so well,
   We will requite him with our fragrant smell;
   In winter (as in gratitude is meet)
   We'll strew our humble leaves beneath his feet.Nay, in each tree, root, trunk, branch, all will be
   Proud to serve him and his posterity."And he thus invokes the stately oak, after enumerating many of the rich
commodities which this tree bears through our Thames:--

   Of silks and satins fine, to clothe the back;
   Of wines, Italian, French, and Spanish sack.*       *       *       *       *

   'T was faithful oak preserved our king, that we
   Might thence learn lessons of true loyalty.*       *       *       *       *

   When in salt seas Sir Francis Drake did steer,
   Sailing in oak he say'd one day i'th'year.His oak, which the terrestrial globe did measure,
   Through dangers led him t' honour, profit, pleasure.No wood like oak that grows upon the ground,
   To make our house and ships last long and sound;
   No oak like ours: by love to oak let's then
   Appear true subjects, and right Englishmen.ANTHONY LAWRENCE published in 4to.1677, Nurseries, Orchards, Profitable
Gardens, and Vineyards Encouraged.JOHN READ, "one of the earliest Scotch gardening writers."He wrote "The
Scotch Gardener," 1683, 4to.1766; to which
is added, a short Treatise of Forest Trees, by the Earl of Haddington.J. GIBSON, who wrote A Short Account of several Gardens near London, as
viewed in 1681, in vol.T. LANGFORD wrote Plain and Full Instructions to raise all sorts of
Fruit Trees that prosper in England; with Directions for making Liquors
of all sorts of Fruits; 8vo.To the second edition, in 1696, is
prefixed a very handsome epistle from Mr.Evelyn, in which he says, "As
I know nothing extant that exceeds it, so nor do I of any thing which
needs be added to it."Also,

The Practical Planter of Fruit Trees; 8vo.Also, Systemae
Agriculturae, being the Mystery of Husbandry Discovered; folio, 1681.LEONARD MEAGER'S Portrait perhaps we may not be very desirous to
discover, when he tells his readers, neither to "sow, plant, nor graft,
or meddle with any thing relating to gardening, when the sun or moon is
eclipsed, or on that day, nor when the moon is afflicted by either of
the unfortunate planets, viz."[36] His English Gardner,
in 4to.with cuts, came out in 1683; the ninth edition came out in 1699,
4to.; it contains several clearly pointed plates of knots, or parterres.Meager also published The New Art of Gardening, with the Gardener's
Almanack; 8vo.1697; and

The Mystery of Husbandry; 12mo.The many editions that came out of Meager's English Gardner,
sufficiently shews the estimation in which his book was held.GEORGE LONDON and HENRY WISE, so eminent in their day, that, as a
contemporary says, "If the stock of their nurseries at Brompton Park,
were valued at one penny a plant, the amount would exceed L40,000.Evelyn declares, that we may place the above nursery above the greatest
works of that kind ever seen or heard of, either in books or travels."Evelyn again calls it "that vast ample collection which I have
lately seen, and well considered, at Brompton Park; the very sight of
which alone, gives an idea of something that is greater than I can well
express.One needs no more than to take a walk to Brompton Park, (on a
fair morning) to behold and admire what a magazine these industrious men
have provided."John Laurence, in his Clergyman's Recreation,
willingly attests their skill, integrity, and reputation, "so well
established amongst the nobility and gentry."London's grateful apprentice, Switzer, thus affectionately and
zealously records them in his History of Gardening, prefixed to his
Iconologia:--"But now let us look amongst the nobility and gentry, which
at this time were every where busied in making and adorning their
gardens and plantations.To enumerate and set down the history of
gardening in its several particulars in this reign, would require a
volume of itself, but will be for the most part summed up in the person
and character of _George London, Esq._ Superintendent of their Majesties
gardens, and Director-General of most of the gardens and plantations of
Great Britain.I am not well enough informed, neither is it material I
should go back to the birth and education of this eminent gardener; his
industry and natural parts soon and sufficiently recommended him to the
nobility and gentry, that he was _courted and caressed by all_; so true
it is, _That the gifts of nature are much more valuable than those of
original birth and fortune, or even learning itself_.And to the eternal
honour of the present age be it spoken, never was virtue, laudable
industry, nor art more encouraged, of which the person we are here
speaking of is an undeniable instance.I shall content myself therefore
to find him under the care and instruction of Mr._Rose_ (whose
character has been already drawn).The early and vigorous appearances he
made in business were soon discovered by his master, who spared no
pains, nor hindered him of any liberty, whereby he might improve
himself.After he had been with him about four or five years, he sent
him (if I am right informed) into France, the great seat of learning at
that time in the world, especially in the errand he went about.Soon
after he returned, he was preferred to the Bishop of London's service
before-mentioned; and, in a few years more, he (with his associates)
entered on that great undertaking of Brompton Park; and upon the
Revolution, was made superintendant of all their Majesties gardens, for
which he had L200.a year, and a Page of the Back Stairs to Queen Mary.Wise being joined partners, and thus, as it were,
both possessed of the royal favour, and the purses of the king, queen,
and nobility, left no stone unturned to carry on their designs.Soon
after the peace of Reswyck, Mr.London took another journey into France,
with the Right Honourable the Earl of Portland, that was sent, by King
William, Ambassador-Extraordinary on that occasion; and then it was that
he made those observations on the fruit gardens at Versailles, which are
published in the preface to their abridgement.After the death of the
Queen, and not many years after her the King, their royal successor,
Queen Anne, of pious memory, committed the care of her gardens in chief
to Mr.It
will perhaps be hardly believed in time to come, that this one person
actually saw and gave directions once or twice a year in most of the
noblemen's and gentlemen's gardens in England.And since it was common
for him to ride fifty or sixty miles in a day, he made his northern
circuit in five or six weeks, and sometimes less; and his western in as
little time; as for the south and east, they were but three or four
days' work for him; most times twice a year visiting all the country
seats, conversing with gentlemen, and forwarding the business of
gardening in such a degree as is almost impossible to describe.In the
mean time his colleague managed matters nearer home with a dexterity and
care equal to his character; and in truth they have deserved so much of
the world, that it is but common justice to transmit their memory to
ages to come.London was
supposed to be master of in this matter, the little opportunity he had
in laying a foundation of learning, was, without doubt, a great
obstruction to his progress in occult philosophy, which is involved in
so many hard terms; this, nevertheless, he overcame purely by industry;
and what he wanted in one, he abounded with in the other.He was
perfectly well skilled in fruit, which seemed to be his master-piece; as
for other parts, as greens, trees, flowers, exoticks, and the like, he
certainly had as much knowledge as any one man living; and though he
might not come up to the highest pitch of design always, yet that might
be attributed to the haste he was generally in; and it can be no great
blemish to his character, that he was not the greatest person in every
thing, when it is surprising to find he could possibly know so much; so
great a surprise indeed, that we must hardly ever expect his equal, much
less any one that will exceed him.The planting and raising of all sorts
of trees is so much due to this undertaking, that it will be hard for
any of posterity to lay their hands on a tree in any of these kingdoms,
that have not been a part of their care.London, by his great
fatigues in heat and cold, notwithstanding naturally of a healthy,
strong constitution, was at last seized with an illness, which carried
him off after a few months' sickness.I shall take no other notice of
him than what relates to my purpose in gardening, in which he has left a
laudable example to all that shall have the encouragement to enter, and
the courage and strength to perform what he did.He died towards
Christmas in the year 1713."In the preface to his Iconologia, he again mentions them:--"Had their
leisure been equal to their experience, the world might from them have
reasonably expected the compleatest System of Gardening that any age or
country has produced.It is to them we owe most of those valuable
precepts in gardening now in use, and their memory ought to be
transmitted to posterity, with the same care as those of the greatest
and most laborious philosophers and heroes, who by their writing and
practice have deserved so well of the world."London:--"In fine, he was the
person that refined the business and pleasure of kitchen and fruit
gardens to a pitch beyond what was ever till that time seen, and more
than was thought possible for one man ever to do; and (till the
succession of two eminent persons in these kingdoms, who have very much
outstript him) has not had his fellow in any century that history gives
us account of."Compton, Bishop of London, says, "He was a
great encourager of Mr.London, and probably very much assisted him in
his great designs.This reverend father was one of the first that
encouraged the importation, raising and increase of exoticks, in which
he was the most curious man in that time, or perhaps will be in any
age.He had above one thousand species of exotick plants in his stoves
and gardens."No monument has, I believe, been erected to Mr.London's memory,
deservedly eminent and esteemed as he was in his day, _courted and
caressed by all_, nor can I find out even where he was born or buried.If one could obtain a resemblance of him, one hopes his Picture, or his
Bust, may not deserve the censure of our noble poet:

   What is the end of fame?'tis but to fill
   A certain portion of uncertain paper;

       *       *       *       *       *

   To have, when the original is dust,
   A name, a wretched _picture_, and worse _bust_.[37]

The two following works were published by them:--

The Complete Gardener, &c. by Mons.Now compendiously
abridged, and made of more use; with very considerable Improvements.To which is prefixed, An Address to the
Nobility and Gentry, by J. Evelyn, Esq.; folio, 1693; octavo, 1699,
1717.There is a curious plate of a garden
prefixed, and two neat ones at page 22.Evelyn wrote this Address purposely to recommend their "extraordinary
and rare industry."And he also wrote the Preliminary Discourse to that
part which relates to Fruit-trees, wherein he thus breaks out:--"Let us
but take a turn or two in a well-contrived and planted garden; and see
what a surprising scene presents itself in the vernal bloom, diffusing
its fragrant and odoriferous wafts, with their ravishing sweets; the
tender blossoms curiously enamelled; the variously-figured shapes of the
verdant foliage, dancing about, and immantling the laden branches of the
choicest fruit; some hiding their blushing cheeks; others displaying
their beauties, and even courting the eye to admire; others the hand to
gather, and all of them to taste their delicious pulps.Can any thing be
more delightful, than to behold an ample square (in a benign aspect)
tapestried and adorned with such a glorious embroidery of festoons, and
fruitages, depending from the yielding boughs, pregnant with their
offspring, and pouring forth their plenty and store, as out of so many
Amalthean horns?Some tinctured with the loveliest white and red; others
an azurine-purple; others striped with an incarnadine, as over a tissue
of vegetable gold.Colours of an oriency, that mock the pencil of the
most exquisite artist; and with which their native beauty, perfume,
fragrancy, and taste, gratify and entertain more senses at once, than
does any sublunary object in all unvitiated nature besides."Their other Work was thus announced in one of the original numbers of
the Spectator, which came out in small folio weekly numbers, and a
portion of each number was appropriated to advertisements.It was thus
advertised in that of May 5th, 1711:--"The Retired Gardener.i.
Being a Translation of Le Jardinier Solitaire; or, Dialogues between a
Gentleman and a Gardener: containing the methods of making, ordering,
and improving a fruit and kitchen garden; together with the manner of
planting and cultivating flowers, plants, and shrubs, necessary for the
adorning of gardens, &c. Vol.containing the manner of planting and
cultivating all sorts of flowers, plants, and shrubs, necessary for the
adorning of gardens; in which is explained, the art of making and
disposing of parterres, arbours of greens, wood works, arches, columns,
and other pieces and compartments usually found in the most beautiful
gardens of country seats.The whole enriched with variety of Figures,
being a Translation from the Sieur Louis Liger.To this volume is added,
a Description and Plan of Count Tallard's Garden, at Nottingham.The
whole revised by George London and Henry Wise.Printed for Jacob Tonson,
at Shakspeare's Head, over against Catherine-street in the Strand."This
book, after giving the mode of culture of most flowers, generally gives
what the author calls _its history_.I will merely give its history of
one flower:--"On a day when they were keeping holiday in heaven, Flora
summoned all the deities that preside over gardens, and, when they were
met, addressed herself to them in this manner: 'You, who have always
been the shining ornaments of my court, I have now called together, to
consult in a matter of great importance.I know I am the sovereign of
all the flowery kind; but for the more firm establishment of my empire,
I am thinking to choose them a Queen of a spotless and unblemished
reputation; but will do nothing of this nature without your counsel and
assistance.'To these words, all the deities that were present, having
first filled the court with murmurs, answered in this manner: 'Great
goddess, be pleased to reflect a little on the animosities such a choice
may create among the rival flowers; even the worthless Thistle will
pretend to deserve the crown, and if denied, will perhaps grow factious,
and disturb your peaceful reign.''Your fears are groundless,' replied
the goddess; 'I apprehend no such consequence; my resolution is already
fixed; hear, therefore, what I have determined:--In the deep recesses of
a wood, where formerly the oaks were vocal, and pronounced oracles to
mortals, at the foot of a little hill is a grotto, whose structure is
nature's master-piece, there a wood nymph passed her quiet days; she was
extremely beautiful, and charmed all that beheld her; her looks, her
mien, and her behaviour had something of more than human; and indeed she
was the daughter of a Dryad, and of a sylvan god.Her chastity and
devotion equalled her beauty, she was perfectly resigned to the will of
heaven, and never undertook any thing without having first implored our
assistance; her heart was pure, and her hands undefiled.This nymph is
dead, and my intention is to raise a flower from her precious remains,
to be Queen of all the flowery race.The applauding gods straight
prepared for the ceremony; _Priapus_ put on a grave countenance;
_Vertumnus_ loaded himself with perfumes of an excellent scent; _Pomona_
heaped up canisters with all sorts of richest fruits; _Venus_ was
attended with a train of smiles and graces; _Vesta_ promised wonders;
and _Bacchus_ supplied rivers of nectar, and crowned vast goblets with
that divine liquor.In this equipage they left their celestial mansions,
and repaired to the grotto, where they saw the dead body of the nymph
stretched along on a soft couch of turf, and approaching it with
profound awe and silence, prepared to pay the sacred rites; and Flora,
having thrice bowed herself to the ground, was heard to pronounce this
prayer:--'Almighty Jupiter, great ruler of the universe, exert thy
creating power, and from the dead corpse of this lovely nymph let a
plant arise, and bear no less lovely flowers, to be Queen of all thou
hast already created.'Scarce had she made an end, when, behold a
wondrous change!The nymph's extended limbs were turned into branches,
and her hair into leaves; a shrub sprung up, adorned with sprouting
buds, which straight unfolding, disclosed a fragrant and vermilion
flower; a sudden light filled all the grotto, and the well-pleased
goddess breathed thrice on the new-born babe, to spread it into life,
and give it an odorous soul.Then seeing the vegetable Queen adorned
with every grace, she kissed her thrice, and, breaking the general
silence, revealed her secret joy.'Approach,' said she, 'at my command,
oh, all ye flowers, and pay your grateful homage to your Queen, the
ROSE, for that is the name I give her.'Then taking a crown in her hand,
that had been made on purpose in heaven, she placed it on the head of
the new-made majesty; while to complete the ceremony, the attending gods
sung joyful _Io Paeans_, amidst a symphony of flutes, harps, and all
other tuneful instruments, with which the air resounded, while Flora and
her bright celestial train ascended back rejoicing into heaven."[38]


JOHN JAMES, who translated Le Blond's "Theory and Practice of Gardening,
wherein is fully handled all that relates to fine gardens, commonly
called Pleasure-gardens," cuts, 4to.M. STEVENSON published in small 4to.1661, a book called The Twelve
Months, being a Treatise on Husbandry and Gardening.HENRY STEVENSON, of East Retford, published "The Young
Gardener's Director," 1716, 12mo.Evelyn's advice
as to having salads in each month.There is a neat cut of flower-knots,
and the frontispiece exhibits a curious old garden.In the preface he
says, "not to mention the profit to a family, nothing conduces more to a
man's health, especially to one that lives a sedentary life.If these
observations and experiments I have made in gardening, be of use to any
by drawing him to a way of diversion that will preserve his health, and
perhaps put him upon a meditation on the great works of the creation,
let him give the Creator the praise."He also published "The Gentleman
Gardener Instructed;" eighth edition, 12mo.DAVID STEVENSON, in 1746, published in 12mo.STEPHEN SWITZER, of whose private history so very little is known, but
whose works shew him to have been an honest, unassuming, humane,
religious, most industrious, and ingenious man.We only know that he had
a garden on Milbank, and another _near_ Vauxhall; and that he died, I
believe, about 1745.He dates his Letter on the Cythesis, from New
Palace Yard, 1730.He was a native of _Hampshire_; for in his Fruit
Gardener, speaking of walnut-trees, he says, "The best I ever saw are
those that grow upon chalk.Such are those that grow about _Ewell_, near
_Epsom_, and in many places of my own native county of _Hampshire_,
there being one cut down some few years ago in the Park belonging to the
Right Honourable the Lady _Russell_, at _Stratton_, that did spread, at
least, fifty yards diameter."He acknowledges, without murmuring, his
meanness of fortune, and his having industriously submitted "to the
meanest labours of the scythe, spade, and wheel-barrow."He became,
however, eminent in his day, and added much to the beauty and
magnificence of the gardens of many of our chief nobility and gentry.He
wrote a history of the art he so loved, and therefore his classic
History of Gardening, prefixed to his Ichnographia Rustica, merits the
perusal of every one attached to gardens; and paints in strong colours
his own devotion to that art; and which he thus concludes:--"In short,
next to the more immediate duties of religion, 'tis in the innocency of
these employs, thus doing, thus planting, dressing, and busying
themselves, that all wise and intelligent persons would be found, when
Death, the king of terrors, shall close their eyes, and they themselves
be obliged to bid an eternal farewell to these and all other sublunary
pleasures;" and he who was thus fond of breathing the sweet and fragrant
air of gardens, thus expresses his own (perhaps expiring) wish in the
lines of Cowley:

   Sweet shades, adieu!here let my dust remain,
   Covered with flowers, and free from noise and pain;
   Let evergreens the turfy tomb adorn,
   And roseate dews (the glory of the morn)
   My carpet deck; then let my soul possess
   The happier scenes of an eternal bliss.He asks "What solid pleasure is there not to be found in gardening?Its
pursuit is easy, quiet, and such as put neither the body nor mind into
those violent agitations, or precipitate and imminent dangers that many
other exercises (in themselves very warrantable) do.The end of this is
health, peace, and plenty, and the happy prospect of felicities more
durable than any thing in these sublunary regions, and to which this is
(next to the duties of religion) the surest path."His attachment to
some of our own poets, and to the classic authors of antiquity,
discovers itself in many of his pages; and his devout turn of mind
strongly shines throughout.page 7,
sufficiently shews how ardently this industrious servant, this barrow
wheeler, must have searched the great writers of ancient times, to
discover their attachment to rural nature, and to gardens.His candid
and submissive mind thus speaks:--"If we would, therefore, arrive at any
greater perfection than we are in gardening, we must cashiere that
mathematical stiffness in our gardens, and imitate nature more; how that
is to be done, will appear in the following chapters, which though they
may not be, as new designs scarce ever are, the most perfect, it will at
least excite some after-master to take pen and pencil in hand, and
finish what is here thus imperfectly begun, and this is my comfort, that
I shall envy no man that does it.I have, God be praised, learned to
admire, and not envy every one that outgoes me: and this will, I hope,
go a great way in making me easy and happy under the pressures of a very
narrow fortune, and amidst the ruffles of an ill-natured world.I have
tasted too severely of the lashes of man, to take any great
satisfaction in any thing but doing my duty."[39] In his devout and
magnificent Essay on the Sun, he says, "'tis admirable that this planet
should, through so many ages of the world, maintain an uninterrupted
course, that in so many thousands of revolving years, it should retain
the same light, heat, and vigour, and every morning renew its wonted
alacrity, and dart its cherishing beams on these dull and gloomy scenes
of melancholy and misery, and yet that so few of us rightly consider its
power, or are thankful to Divine Omnipotence for it.The great Roscommon
(not greater than good) speaks of it with divine transport, and exhorts
mankind to admire it, from the benefits and celestial beams it displays
on the world:--

   Great eye of all, whose glorious ray
   Rules the bright empire of the day;
   O praise his name, without whose purer light
   Thou hadst been hid in an abyss of night."[40]

Switzer (as appears from the Preface to his Iconologia) was so struck
with the business and pleasures of a country life, that he collected, or
meant to collect, whatever he could respecting this subject, scattered
up and down as they were in loose irregular papers and books; but this
work, we regret to say, never made its appearance.That he would have
done this well, may be guessed at from so many of his pages recording
what he calls "the eternal duration" of Virgil's works, or those of "the
noble and majestic" Milton:--

   Flowers worthy of Paradise, which no nice art
   In beds, and curious knots, but nature boon
   Pour'd forth profuse on hill, and dale, and plain.Though prim regularity, and "parterres embroidered like a petticoat,"
were in his time in high vogue, yet his pages shew his enlarged views on
this subject, and the magnificent ideas he had formed, by surrounding
them by rural enclosures, (probably by reading Mr.Addison), perfumed
with blossoms, and bespangled with the rich tufts of nature.Nothing, he
says, is now so much wanted to complete the grandeur of the British
nation, as noble and magnificent gardens, statues, and water-works; long
extended shady walks, and groves, and the adjacent country laid open to
view, and not bounded by high walls.The pleasant fields, and paddocks,
in all the beautiful attire of nature, would then appear to be a part of
it, and look as if the adjacent country were all a garden.Walls take
away the rural aspect of any seat; wood, water, and such like, being the
noble and magnificent decorations of a country villa.Switzer calls
water the spirit and most enchanting beauty of nature.He is so struck
with "the beautifulness and nobleness of terrace walks," and
particularly with that truly magnificent and noble one, belonging to the
Right Honourable the Earl of Nottingham, at _Burleigh-on-the-Hill_, that
"for my own part I must confess, that that design creates an idea in my
mind greater than I am well able to express."In his chapter of "Woods
and Groves," he enforces "a particular regard to large old oaks, beech,
and such like trees; in which case, one would as soon fire one's house,
as cut them down, since it is the work of so many years, I may say ages,
to rear them; those ancient trees which our forefathers had all along
preserved with much care."[41] In some of the romantic embellishments
which he proposed in the midst of a grove, or coppice, he hints at
having "little gardens, with caves, little natural cascades and grotts
of water, with seats, and arbors of honeysuckles and jessamine, and, in
short, with all the varieties that nature and art can furnish."He
advises "little walks and paths running through such pastures as adjoin
the gardens, passing through little paddocks, and corn fields, sometimes
through wild coppices, and gardens, and sometimes by purling brooks, and
streams; places that are set off not by _nice art_, but by luxury of
nature."And again, "these hedge-rows mixed with primroses, violets, and
such natural sweet and pleasant flowers; the walks that thus lead
through them, will afford as much pleasure, nay, more so, than the
largest walk in the most magnificent and elaborate fine garden."[42] He
concludes his interesting Chapter of Woods and Coppices, with these
lines of Tickell:--

   Sweet solitude!when life's gay hours are past,
   Howe'er we range, in thee we fix at last:
   Tost thro' tempestuous seas, the voyage o'er,
   Pale we look back, and bless the friendly shore.Our own strict judges, our past life we scan,
   And ask if glory have enlarg'd the span.If bright the prospect, we the grave defy,
   Trust future ages, and contented die.The following appear to have been his works:--

     1.The Nobleman, Gentleman, and Gardener's Recreation; or an
     Introduction to Gardening, Planting, Agriculture, and the other
     Business and Pleasures of a Country Life.By Stephen Switzer; 1715,
     8vo.The year afterwards, it was
     published with the following title:--

     2.Icknographia Rustica; or, the Nobleman, Gentleman, and
     Gardener's Recreation: containing Directions for the general
     Distribution of a Country Seat into rural and extensive Gardens,
     Parks, Paddocks, &c.; and a General System of Agriculture;
     illustrated by a great variety of Copperplates, done by the first
     hands, _from the Author's Drawings_.By Stephen Switzer, Gardener:
     several years Servant to Mr.A Compendious Method for Raising Italian Brocoli, Cardoon,
     Celeriac, and other Foreign Kitchen Vegetables; as also an Account
     of Lucerne, St.Foyne, Clover, and other Grass Seeds, with the
     Method of Burning of Clay; 8vo.[43]

     4.An Introduction to a General System of Hydrostaticks and
     Hydraulicks, wherein the most advantageous Methods of Watering
     Noblemen's and Gentlemen's Seats, Buildings, Gardens, &c. are laid
     down.With Sixty Copper Cuts of Rural and Grotesque Designs for
     Reservoirs, Cataracts, Cascades, Fountains, &c.; 2 vols.[44]

     5.A Dissertation on the True Cythesus of the Ancients; 8vo.1731;
     1s.At the end, he gives a Catalogue of
     the Seeds, &c. sold by him at the Flower-pot, _over against the
     Court of Common Pleas, in Westminster; or at his garden on
     Millbank_.[45]

     6.Country Gentleman's Companion, or Ancient Husbandry Restored,
     and Modern Husbandry Improved; 8vo.Switzer was the chief conductor of Monthly Papers on
     Agriculture, in 2 vols.8vo., and he himself designed the Two
     Frontispieces.To be sold at his Seed Shop _in Westminster Hall_.The Practical Fruit Gardener; 8vo.Other editions,
     8vo.1724, 1731, Revised and recommended by the Rev.Lawrence
     and Mr.Bradley, with their Two Letters of Recommendation.In this later edition of 1731, are a few additions.In one of its
concluding chapters, he mentions "my worthy and ingenious friend, Sir
James Thornhill."This pleasing volume, after stating the excellency of
fruits, observes, "if fruit trees had no other advantage attending them
than to _look_ upon them, how pleasurable would _that_ be?Since there
is no flowering shrub excels, if equals that of a _peach_, or _apple
tree_ in bloom.The tender enamelled blossoms, verdant foliage, with
such a glorious embroidery of festoons and fruitages, wafting their
odours on every blast of wind, and at last bowing down their laden
branches, ready to yield their pregnant offspring into the hands of
their laborious planter and owner."[46]


JOHN TAVERNER published, in 1660, a little Treatise, called The Making
of Fish Ponds, Breeding Fish, and _Planting Fruits_.Printed several
times, says Wood, in his Athenae.The Encyclopaedia of Gardening pronounces him "a popular
writer of very considerable talent, and indefatigable industry;" and
speaks highly of the interesting knowledge diffused through his very
numerous works, and gives a distinct list of them; so does Mr.Nicholls,
in his Life of Bowyer; and Mr.Weston, in his Tracts, and Dr.Bradley's "New Improvements of Planting and
Gardening," he has added the whole of that scarce Tract of Dr.Beale's,
the _Herefordshire Orchards_.One could wish to obtain his portrait,
were it only from his pen so well painting the alluring charms of
flowers:--"_Primroses_ and _Cowslips_, may be planted near the edges of
borders, and near houses, for the sake of their pretty smell.I
recommend the planting some of the common sorts that grow wild in the
woods, in some of the most rural places about the house; for I think
nothing can be more delightful, than to see great numbers of these
flowers, accompanied with _Violets_, growing under the hedges, avenues
of trees, and wilderness works._Violets_, besides their beauty, perfume
the air with a most delightful odour.Bradley, it appears, from
the Fruit Garden Kalendar, of the Rev.Lawrence, resided at Camden
House, Kensington.They each of them in their letters, in 1717,
subscribe themselves, "Your most affectionate friend."Lawrence
frequently styles him "the most ingenious Mr.Pulteney
says he "was the author of more than twenty separate publications,
chiefly on Gardening and Agriculture; published between the years 1716
and 1730.His 'New Improvement of Planting and Gardening, both
Philosophical and Practical,' 8vo.1717, went through repeated
impressions; as did his 'Gentleman's and Gardener's Kalendar,' (which
was the fourth part of the preceding book) both at home, and in
translations abroad.His 'Philosophical Account of the Works of Nature,'
4to.1721, was a popular, instructive, and entertaining work, and
continued in repute several years.The same may be said of his 'General
Treatise of Husbandry and Gardening,' 8vo.1726; and of his
'Practical Discourses concerning the Four Elements, as they relate to
the Growth of Plants,' 8vo.His '_Dictionarium Botanicum_,' 8vo.1728, was, I believe, the first attempt of the kind in England."On the
whole (says Dr.Pulteney) Bradley's writings, coinciding with the
growing taste for gardening, the introduction of exotics, and
improvements in husbandry, contributed to excite a more philosophical
view of these arts, and diffuse a general and popular knowledge of them
throughout the kingdom.Bradley has given at the end of his
curious "Philosophical Account of the Works of Nature," which is
embellished with neat engravings, a chapter "Of the most curious Gardens
in Europe, especially in Britain."In this chapter he justly observes,
that "a gentle exercise in a fresh air, where the mind is engaged with
variety of natural objects, contributes to content; and it is no new
observation, that the trouble of the mind wears and destroys the
constitution even of the most healthful body.All kinds of gardens
contribute to health."This volume also preserves the account of Lord
Ducie's noted old chesnut tree at Tortworth, supposed to be more than a
thousand years old; and of an elm belonging to his lordship, of a truly
gigantic growth.[49] Switzer thus speaks of Bradley:--"Mr.Bradley has
not only shewn himself a skilful botanist, but a man of experience in
other respects, and is every where a modest writer."Some writers have dwelt much upon his dissipation; let us
remember, however, that

   _Men's evil manners live in brass; their virtues
   We write in water._

Mr.Weston, in a communication inserted in the Gentleman's Magazine for
November, 1806, says, "Although this country had a great loss by the
death of Evelyn, yet he was succeeded, in twenty years after, by another
of equal abilities, and indefatigable in endeavouring to improve the art
of gardening, as Bradley's numerous works will testify."TIMOTHY NOURSE, whose "Campania Foelix," 8vo.1700, has prefixed to
it, a very neat engraving by Vander Gucht, of rural life.He has
chapters on Fruit Trees; on the several kinds of Apple Trees, and on
Cyder and Perry.In page 262 he, with great humanity, strongly pleads to
acquit Lord Chancellor Bacon from the charge against him of corruption
in his high office.His Essay "Of a Country House," in this work, is
curious; particularly to those who wish to see the style of building,
and the decorations of a country seat at that period.Nourse also
published "A Discourse upon the Nature and Faculties of Man, with some
Considerations upon the Occurrences of Humane Life."Printed for Jacob
Tonson, at the Judge's Head, in Chancery-lane, 1686, 8vo.His chapter on
Solitude, wherein he descants on the delights of rural scenery and
gardens; and his conclusion, directing every man towards the attainment
of his own felicity, are worth perusing.That on Death is forcibly
written; he calls it "no more than for a man to close up all the
travails, pains, and misfortunes of life, with one sweet and eternal
sleep; he is now at everlasting rest; the fears and misery of poverty,
the anxieties of riches, the vexations of a process, do not devour him.He does not fear the calumnies of the base, nor the frowns of the great.'Tis death which delivers the prisoner from his fetters, and the slave
and captive from his chain; 'tis death which rescues the servant from
the endless toils of a laborious life, the poor from oppression, and
makes the beggar equal with princes.Here desperation finds a remedy,
all the languors of disease, all the frustrations and tediousness of
life, all the infirmities of age, all the disquiets of the passions, and
all the calamities of fortune, with whatever can make a man miserable,
vanish in these shades."In his very curious "Essay of a Country House,"
he thus moralizes:--"The variety of flowers, beautiful and fragrant,
with which his gardens are adorned, opening themselves, and dying one
after another, must admonish him of the fading state of earthly
pleasures, of the frailty of life, and of the succeeding generations to
which he must give place.The constant current of a fountain, or a
rivulet, must remind of the flux of time, which never returns."SAMUEL COLLINS, ESQ.of Archeton, Northamptonshire, author of "Paradise
Retrieved; 1717, 8vo.In the Preface to the Lady's Recreation, by
Charles Evelyn, Esq.he is extremely severe on this "Squire Collins,"
whom he accuses of ignorance and arrogance.JOHN EVELYN, son of the author of _Sylva_.His genius early displayed
itself; for when little more than fifteen, he wrote a Greek poem, which
must have some merit, because his father has prefixed it to the second
edition of his _Sylva_.Nicoll's Collection of Poems, are some by
him.There are two poems of his in Dryden's Miscellany.He translated
Plutarch's Life of Alexander from the Greek; and the History of Two
Grand Viziers, from the French.When only nineteen, he translated from
the Latin, Rapin on Gardens.The Quarterly Review, in
its review of Mr.Bray's Memoirs of Evelyn, thus speaks of this son, and
of his father:--"It was his painful lot to follow to the grave his only
remaining son, in the forty-fourth year of his age, a man of much
ability and reputation, worthy to have supported the honour of his name.Notwithstanding these repeated sorrows, and the weight of nearly
fourscore years, Evelyn still enjoyed uninterrupted health, and
unimpaired faculties; he enjoyed also the friendship of the wise and the
good, and the general esteem beyond any other individual of his
age."[50]


THOMAS FAIRCHILD, whose garden and vineyard at Hoxton, Mr.Bradley
mentions in high terms, in numberless pages of his many works.I will
merely quote from one of his works, viz.from his Philosophical Account
of the Works of Nature:--"that curious garden of Mr.Thomas Fairchild,
at Hoxton, where I find the greatest collection of fruits that I have
yet seen, and so regularly disposed, both for order in time of ripening
and good pruning of the several kinds, that I do not know any person in
Europe to excel him in that particular; and in other things he is no
less happy in his choice of such curiosities, as a good judgement and
universal correspondence can procure."Fairchild published The City
Gardener; 8vo.He left
funds for a Botanical Sermon to be delivered annually at St.Leonard,
Shoreditch, on each Whitsun Tuesday, "On the wonderful works of God in
the creation, or on the certainty of the resurrection of the dead,
proved by the certain changes of the animal and vegetable parts of the
creation.Fairchild:--"My plan does
not allow me to deviate so far as to cite authors on the subject of
gardening, unless eminent for their acquaintance with English botany.Some have distinguished themselves in this way; and I cannot omit to
mention, with applause, the names of Fairchild, Knowlton, Gordon, and
Miller.The first of these made himself known to the Royal Society, by
some 'New Experiments relating to the different, and sometimes contrary
motion of the Sap;' which were printed in the Phil.He also assisted in making experiments, by which the sexes of plants
were illustrated, and the doctrine confirmed.Fairchild died in
November, 1729."GEORGE RICKETS, of Hoxton, was much noted about 1688 and 1689.Rea, in
his Flora, says of him, "Mr.Rickets, of Hogsden, often remembered, the
best and most faithful florist now about London."Rea describes, in his
Flora, one hundred and ninety different kinds of tulips, and says, "All
these tulips, and _many others_, may be had of Mr.Worlidge
thus speaks of him:--"he hath the greatest variety of the choicest
apples, pears, cherries, plums, apricots, peaches, malacolones,
noctorines, figgs, vines, currans, gooseberries, rasberries, mulberries,
medlars, walnuts, nuts, filberts, chesnuts, &c. that any man hath, and
can give the best account of their natures and excellencies."And again
he says, "the whole nation is obliged to the industry of the ingenious
Mr.George Rickets, gardner at Hoxton or Hogsden without Bishopsgate,
near London, at the sign of the Hand there; who can furnish any planter
with all or most of the fruit trees before mentioned, having been for
many years a most laborious and industrious collector of the best
species of all sorts of fruit from foreign parts.And hath also the
richest and most complete collection of all the great variety of
flower-bearing trees and shrubs in the kingdom.That there is not a day
in the year, but the trees, as well as the most humble plants, do there
yield ornaments for Flora; with all sorts of curious and pleasant
winter-greens, that seemed to perpetuate the spring and summer, from the
most humble myrtle, to the very true cedar of Libanus.Not without
infinite variety of tulips, auriculaes, anemones, gillyflowers, and
all other sorts of pleasant, and delicate flowers, that he may be truly
said to be the master-flowrist of England; and is ready to furnish any
ingenious person with any of his choicest plants."JOHN COWEL appears to have been a noted gardener at Hoxton, about 1729.He was the author of the "Curious and Profitable Gardener."of Pynes, in Devonshire, who published, in 1729, "A
Treatise on Cyder Making, with a Catalogue of Cyder Apples of Character;
to which is prefixed, a Dissertation on Cyder, and Cyder-Fruit."BENJAMIN WHITMILL, Sen.Gardeners at Hoxton, published the
sixth edition, in small 8vo.of their "Kalendarium Universale: or, the
Gardener's Universal Calendar."The following is part of their
Preface:--"The greatest persons, in all ages, have been desirous of a
country retirement, where every thing appears in its native simplicity.The inhabitants are religious, the fair sex modest, and every
countenance bears a picture of the heart.What, therefore, can be a more
elegant amusement, to a good and great man, than to inspect the
beautiful product of fields and gardens, when every month hath its
pleasing variety of plants and flowers.And if innocence be our greatest
happiness, where can we find it but in a country life?In fields and
gardens we have pleasures unenvied, and beauties unsought for; and any
discovery for the improvement of them, is highly praiseworthy.In the
growth of a plant, or a tree, we view the progress of nature, and ever
observe that all her works yield beauty and entertainment.To cultivate
this beauty, is a task becoming the wealthy, the polite, and the
learned; this is so generally understood, that there are few gentlemen
of late, who are not themselves their chief gardeners.And it certainly
redounds more to the honour and satisfaction of a gardener, that he is a
preserver and pruner of all sorts of fruit trees, than it does to the
happiness of the greatest general that he has been successful in killing
mankind."SAMUEL TROWEL, of Poplar, published, in 1739, A New Treatise of
Husbandry and Gardening; 12mo.This was translated in Germain,
at Leipsig, 1750, in 8vo.FRANCIS COVENTRY, who wrote an admirable paper in the _World_, (No.15,) on the absurd novelties introduced in gardens.He wrote Penshurst,
in Dodsley's Poems.published the "Scot's Gardener's Director," 8vo.A
new edition, entitled "The _British_ Gardener's Director, chiefly
adapted to the Climate of the Northern Counties," was published at
_Edinburgh_, 1764, 8vo.The Encyclopaedia of Gardening calls his book
"an original and truly valuable work;" and in page 87, 846, and 1104,
gives some interesting particulars of this gentleman's passion for
gardening.author of "The Fruit Gardener," to which he has
prefixed an interesting Preface on the Fruit Gardens of the Ancients.In
this Preface he also relates the origin of fruit gardens, by the
hermits, and monastic orders.In his Introduction, he says, that "every
kind of fruit tree seems to contend in spring, who shall best entertain
the possessor with the beauty of their blossoms.Mankind are always
happy with the prospect of plenty; in no other scene is it exhibited
with such charming variety, as in the fruit garden and orchard.Are
gentlemen fond of indulging their tastes?Nature, from the plentiful
productions of the above, regales them with a variety of the finest
flavours and exalted relishes.To cool us in the heat of summer, she
copiously unites the acid to an agreeable sweetness.Flowering shrubs
and trees are often purchased by gentlemen at a high price; yet not one
of them can compare in beauty with an _apple tree_, when beginning to
expand its blossoms."[52] Speaking of the greengage, he says, "its taste
is so exquisitely sweet and delicious, that nothing can exceed it."He
enlivens many of his sections on the cultivation of various fruits, by
frequent allusions to Theophrastus, Virgil, Pliny, and other _Rei
rustica scriptores_.His chapter on Pears, (the various kinds of which
possess "a profusion of sweets, heightened by an endless variety of
delicious flavours,") is particularly profuse.JAMES RUTTER published, in 1767, Modern Eden, or the Gardener's
Universal Guide; 8vo.JOHN DICKS published, in 1769, The New Gardener's Dictionary; in sixty
numbers, small folio, 30s.JAMES GARTON published, in 1769, The Practical Gardener; 8vo.---- WILDMAN published, in 1768, a Treatise on the Culture of Pear
Trees: to which is added, a Treatise on the Management of Bees; 12mo.published The Royal Gardener;
12mo.published, in 1770, Letters, describing the Lake of
Killarney, and Rueness's Gardens; 8vo.THOMAS HITT published his Treatise on Fruit Trees, 8vo.Loudon calls it "an original work, valuable for its
mode of training trees."He also published, in 1760, a Treatise on
Husbandry; 8vo.ADAM TAYLOR, Gardener to J. Sutton, Esq.at New Park, near Devizes,
published a Treatise on the Ananas, or Pine Apple: containing Plain and
Easy Directions for Raising this most excellent Fruit without Fire, and
in much higher perfection than from the Stove; to which are added, Full
Directions for Raising Melons.JAMES MEADER, Gardener at Sion House, and afterwards to the Empress
Catharine.He published, in 1771, in 12mo.The Modern Gardener, &c. in a
manner never before published; selected from the Diary MSS.Also, The Planter's Guide, or Pleasure Gardener's Companion;
with plates, 1779, oblong 4to.RICHARD WESTON, ESQ.an amateur gardener, who has given, at the end of
his "Tracts on Practical Agriculture, and Gardening," 1762, 8vo.a
Catalogue of English Authors on Agriculture, Gardening, &c. There is
another edition in 1773, with additions.His intelligent Catalogue is
brought down to the end of the year 1772.This volume of Tracts contains
an infinity of ingenious and curious articles.One of the chapters
contains "A Plan for Planting all the Turnpike Roads in England with
Timber Trees."[53] He most zealously wishes to encourage planting."I
believe (says this candid writer) that one of the principal reasons why
few persons plant, springs from a fearful conjecture that their days
will have been passed, before the forest can have risen.But let not the
parent harbour so selfish an idea; it should be his delight, to look
forward to the advantage which his children would receive from the
timber which he planted, contented if it flourished every year beneath
his inspection; surely there is much more pleasure in planting of trees,
than in cutting of them down.View but the place where a fine tree
stands, what an emblem does it afford of present beauty and of future
use; examine the spot after the noble ornament shall have been felled,
and see how desolate it will appear.Perhaps there is not a better
method of inducing youth to have an early inclination for planting,
than for fathers, who have a landed estate, to persuade those children
who are to inherit it, as soon as they come to years of discretion, to
make a small nursery, and to let them have the management of it
themselves; they will then see the trees yearly thriving under their
hands: as an encouragement to them, they should, when the trees are at a
fit growth to plant out, let them have the value of them for their
pocket money.This will, in their tender years, fix so strong an idea of
the value, and the great consequence of planting, as will never be
eradicated afterwards; and many youths, of the age of twenty-five,
having planted quick growing trees, may see the industry of their
juvenile years amply rewarded at that early age, a time when most young
men begin to know the value of money.Pope, in one of his
letters to Mr.Allen, thus discovers his own generous mind:--"I am now
as busy in planting for myself as I was lately in planting for another.I am pleased to think my trees will afford shade and fruit to others,
when I shall want them no more."Addison's admirable recommendation
of planting, forms No.He therein says, "When a
man considers that the putting a few twigs in the ground, is doing good
to one who will make his appearance in the world about fifty years
hence, or that he is perhaps making one of his own descendants easy or
rich, by so inconsiderable an expence; if he finds himself averse to it,
he must conclude that he has a poor and base heart.Most people are of
the humour of an old fellow of a college, who, when he was pressed by
the society to come into something that might redound to the good of
their successors, grew very peevish._We are always doing_, says he,
_something for posterity, but I would fain see posterity do something
for us._"[55] Mr.Weston also published The Universal Botanist and
Nursery; 1770, 1774, 4 vols.The Gardener and Planter's Calendar,
containing the Method of Raising Timber Trees, Fruit Trees, and Quicks
for Hedges; with Directions for Forming and Managing a Garden every
Month in the Year; also many New Improvements in the Art of Gardening;
8vo.Weston then appears to have lived at Kensington Gore.The
Gentleman's Magazine for November, 1806, says, that he died at
Leicester, in 1806, aged seventy-four.He was formerly a thread hosier
there.It gives an amusing and full list of his various publications,
particularly of his intended "Natural History of Strawberries."The best edition of his "Essay on Design in Gardening,"
appears to have been that of 1795, in 8vo.Two Appendixes were published
in 1798, which are said to have been written by Mr.Nichols's fourth volume of Illustrations of the Literary History of the
Eighteenth Century, are some particulars of Mr.He published
Hoccleve's Poems, with a Glossary; an Answer to Thomas Paine; the Life
of Lord Howe; a Supplement to Johnson's Dictionary: in the ill-tempered
preface to which, he thus strangely speaks of that Dictionary:--"this
muddiness of intellect sadly besmears and defaces almost every page of
the composition."This is only a small instance of his virulence against
Johnson in this preface.Mason's
sarcasms would have been softened, or even subdued, by its glowing and
eloquent preface, which informs us that this great work was composed
"without one act of assistance, one word of encouragement, or one smile
of favour."Mason, even in the above Essay,
discovers, in three instances, his animosity to our "Dictionary writer,"
for so he calls Dr.Boswell, speaking of Johnson's preface,
says, "We cannot contemplate without wonder, the vigorous and splendid
thoughts which so highly distinguish that performance;" and on the
Dictionary he observes, that "the world contemplated with wonder, so
stupendous a work, achieved by one man, while other countries had
thought such undertakings fit only for whole academies."Linnaeus and
Haller styled Ray's History of Plants, _opus immensi laboris_.One may
justly apply the same words to this Dictionary.Mason that he escaped (what Miss Seward called) "the dead-doing
broadside of Dr.George Mason omits no opportunity of
censuring Mr.Whateley's Observations on Modern Gardening.In the above
Essay, he censures him in seven different pages, and in his distinct
chapter or division on this book of Mr.Whateley's, (consisting of
thirteen pages) there are no less than thirty-three additional sneers,
or faults, found with his opinions.He does not acknowledge in him one
single solitary merit, except at page 191.In page 160, he nearly, if
not quite, calls him a _fool_, and declares that _vanity_ is the passion
to which he is constantly sacrificing.[56] It would be an insult to any
one who has read Mr.Whateley's work, to endeavour to clear him from
such a virulent and ill-founded attack.Johnson, with all
his deep learning, nor Mr.Whateley, with all the cultivated fancy of a
rich scholastic mind, would either of them have been able to comprehend,
or to understand, or even to make head or tail of the first half of Mr.George Mason's poem, with which he closes the above edition of his
Essay.As he has been so caustically severe against Dr.Johnson, it
cannot be ungenerous if one applies to the above part of his own poem,
the language of a French critic on another subject:--"Le style en est
dur, et scabreux.Il semble que l'auteur a ramasse les termes les plus
extraordinaires pour se rendre inintelligible."Percy, Bishop of
Dromore, in vol.x. page 602, of the British Critic, has given a
critique of Mr.Mason's edition of Hoccleve, in which he chastises its
injustice, arrogance, and ignorance.Mason has been more liberal in
warmly praising Kent, and Shenstone, in acknowledging the great taste
and elegance of Mr.Thomas Warton, when the latter notices Milton's line
of

   _Bosom'd high in tufted trees,_

which picturesque remark of Mr.Warton's could not have been excelled
even by the nice and critical pen of the late Sir U. Price; and when he
informs us, in more than one instance, of the great Earl of Chatham's
"turning his mind to the embellishment of rural nature."THOMAS WHATELEY, on whose "Observations on Modern Gardening," the
Encyclopaedia of Gardening (that most comprehensive assemblage of every
thing delightful and curious in this art,) observes, "It is remarkable,
that so little is known of a writer, the beauty of whose style, and the
justness of whose taste, are universally acknowledged."The same work
further says, "his excellent book, so frequently referred to by all
succeeding writers on garden scenery, ought to be in the hands of every
man of taste."And the same work still further observes, that "its style
has been pronounced by Ensor, inimitable, and the descriptions with
which his investigations are accompanied, have been largely copied, and
amply praised by Alison, in his work On Taste.The book was soon
translated into the continental languages, and is judiciously praised in
the _Mercure de France_, _Journal Encyclopedique_, and Weiland's
_Journal_.G. Mason alone dissents from the general opinion, enlarging
on the very few faults or peculiarities which are to be found in the
book.Wheatley, or Whately (for so little is known of this eminent man,
that we have never been able to ascertain satisfactorily the orthography
of his name,) was proprietor of Nonsuch Park, in Surrey; and was
secretary to the Earl of Suffolk.He published only this work, soon
after which he died.After his death, some remarks on Shakspeare, from
his pen, were published in a small 12mo."A second edition of this
elegant little work was published in 1808, by Parson, Oxford; or
Rivington, St.Paul's; in which, the advertisement to the reader informs
us, that "the respectable author intended to have gone through eight or
ten of the principal characters of Shakspeare, but suspended his design,
in order to finish his Observations on Modern Gardening, first published
in the year 1770; immediately after which time, _he was engaged in such
an active scene of public life_, as left him but little leisure to
attend to the Belles Lettres; and in the year 1772 he died."[57]

His remarks on some of the characters of Shakspeare (whom, in his
_Observations_, he calls _the great master of nature_) breathe in many
of his pages, that fire, which he could have caught only from those of
the great poet.Such was his eagerness to complete his _Observations_,
that he for a short while "suspended his design" of examining other
characters of the poet, when the bright effusions of his genius "fled up
to the stars from whence they came."This elegant little work is merely
a fragment, nay, even an unfinished fragment.It must, then, cause deep
regret, that death should so prematurely have deprived us of that rich
treasure of animated thoughts, which, no doubt, would have sprung from
his further tracing the poet's deep and piercing knowledge of the human
heart.Whateley, what he himself applies to
the poet:--"He had a genius to express all that his penetration could
discover."The Journal Encyclopedique, Juilliet, 1771, when speaking of
the French translation of Whateley's Observations, says, "On ne peut
gueres se faire une idee de ces jardins, si l'on n'a ete a Londres.Accoutumes a la symetrie des notres, nous n'imaginons pas qu'on puisse
etablir une forme irreguliere, comme une regle principale: cependant
ceux qui sentent combien la noble simplicite de la nature est superieure
a tous les rafinemens symetriques de l'art, donneront peuetetre la
preference aux jardins Anglois.C'est l'effet que doit produire la
lecture de cet ouvrage, qui quoique destine aux amateurs et aux
compositeurs des jardins, offre aux gens de gout, aux artistes et
sur-tout aux peintres, des observations fines et singulieres sur
plusieurs effets de perspective et sur les arts en general; aux
philosophes, des reflections justes sur les affections de notre ame; aux
poetes, des descriptions exactes, quoique vives, des plus beaux jardins
d'Angleterre dans tous les genres, qui decelent dans l'Auteur un oeil
infiment exerce, une grande connoissance des beaux arts, une belle
imagination et un esprit accoutume a penser."The "bloom of an orchard, the festivity of a hay field, and the carols
of harvest home," could not have met with a more cheerful and benevolent
pen than Mr.Whateley's; a love of country pervades many of his pages;
nor could any one have traced the placid scenery, or rich magnificence
of nature, with a happier pen than when he records the walk to the
cottage at Claremont, the grandeur and majesty of the scene at
_Blenheim_, or _Stowe_, _Persfield_, _Wotton_ in the vale of
Aylesbury--the rugged, savage, and craggy points of _Middleton Dale_, "a
chasm rent in the mountain by some convulsion of nature, beyond the
memory of man, or perhaps before the island was peopled," with its many
rills, springs, rivulets, and water-falls--the vast cliffs of rocks at
_Matlock_, _Bath_, that "scene of romantic magnificence; from such
scenes, probably, was conceived the wild imagination, in ancient
mythology, of the giants piling _Pelion_ upon _Ossa_; the loftiness of
the rocks, and the character of the _Derwent_, a torrent in which force
and fury prevail; the cascades in it are innumerable; before the water
is recovered from one fall, it is hurried down another; and its
agitation being thus increased by repeated shocks, it pushes on with
restless violence to the next, where it dashes against fragments of
rocks, or foams among heaps of stones which the stream has driven
together"--the dusky gloom at the iron forge, "close to the cascade of
the Weir, (between _Ross_ and _Monmouth_) where the agitation of the
current is increased by large fragments of rocks, which have been swept
down by floods from the banks, or shivered by tempests from the brow;
and the sullen sound, at stated intervals, from the strokes of the great
hammers in the forge, deadens the roar of the water-fall"--the solitude,
the loveliness, and the stillness of _Dovedale_, "the whole of which has
the air of enchantment; grotesque as chance can cast, wild as nature can
produce"--the monkish tomb-stones, and the monuments of benefactors long
since forgotten, which appear above the green sward, at _Tintern Abbey_,
with its maimed effigies, and sculpture worn with age and weather--his
view to the approach to Lord _Cadogan's_, near _Reading_--his feeling
and enchanting description of the _Leasowes_--"the wonderful efforts
which art has made at _Painshill_ to rival nature;" where the massy
richness of its hanging wood "gives an air of grandeur to the
whole"--the _Tinian_, and other lawns, and noble and magnificent views
in that vast sylvan scene _Hagley_, where, in a spot which once
delighted Mr.Pope, is inscribed an urn to his memory, "which, when
shewn by a gleam of moonlight through the trees, fixes that
thoughtfulness and composure to which the mind is insensibly led by the
rest of this elegant scene."His section "Of the Seasons," where he descants on the _spirit_ of the
morning, the _excess_ of noon, or the _temperance_ of evening," must
strike every one by its felicity of style; and the reader may judge of
the rich pages which this book contains, even from what he says of
water:--"It accommodates itself to every situation; is the most
interesting object in a landscape, and the happiest circumstance in a
retired recess; captivates the eye at a distance, invites approach, and
is delightful when near; it refreshes an open exposure; it animates a
shade; cheers the dreariness of a waste, and enriches the most crowded
view; in form, in style, and in extent, may be made equal to the
greatest compositions, or adapted to the least; it may spread in a calm
expanse to soothe the tranquillity of a peaceful scene; or hurrying
along a devious course, add splendour to a gay, and extravagance to a
romantic, situation.So various are the characters which water can
assume, that there is scarcely an idea in which it may not concur, or an
impression which it cannot enforce; a deep stagnated pool, dank and dark
with shades which it dimly reflects, befits the seat of melancholy; even
a river, if it be sunk between two dismal banks, and dull both in motion
and colour, is like a hollow eye which deadens the countenance; and over
a sluggard, silent stream, creeping heavily along all together, hangs a
gloom, which no art can dissipate, nor even the sunshine disperse.A
gently murmuring rill, clear and shallow, just gurgling, just dimpling,
imposing silence, suits with solitude, and leads to meditation; a
brisker current, which wantons in little eddies over a bright sandy
bottom, or babbles among pebbles, spreads cheerfulness all around; a
greater rapidity, and more agitation, to a certain degree are animating;
but in excess, instead of wakening, they alarm the senses; the roar and
the rage of a torrent, its force, its violence, its impetuosity, tend to
inspire terror; that terror, which, whether as cause or effect, is so
nearly allied to sublimity."[58]


DANIEL MALTHUS, ESQ.purchased, in 1759, the Rookery, near Dorking,
noted for its beauties of hill, dale, wood, and water; he sold it in
1768.He translated Gerardin, _De la Composition des Paysages_, 12mo.1783, to which he prefixed a preface, being, chiefly, remarks on what
the gardens of the Greeks and Romans were; a view of Rosseau's tomb is
prefixed.Malthus justly observes, that this Essay "is full of the
most insinuating eloquence, that it is wrote by the friend of Rousseau,
and from scenes which realize some of its most beautiful descriptions."He further observes, that "trifling as this enquiry will appear in
itself, it may add something towards the benevolent purpose of M.
d'Ernonville, which is to make men sensible of the exhaustless charms of
nature, to lead them back to their simple and original tastes, to
promote the variety and resources of a country life, and to unite its
usefulness with its embellishment."[59]


JOHN KENNEDY published a Treatise upon Planting, Gardening, &c.N. SWINDEN, "an ingenious gardener and seedsman at Brentford-End,"
wrote The Beauties of Flora Displayed; 8vo.SAMUEL FULMER wrote The Young Gardener's Best Companion for the Kitchen,
and Fruit Garden; 12mo.CHARLES BRYANT published Flora Dietetica; or, the History of Esculent
Plants: 8vo.Also, a Dictionary of Ornamental Trees, Shrubs, and
Plants; 8vo.JOSEPH HEELEY, ESQ.author of Letters on the Beauties of Hagley, Envil,
and the Leasowes; with Critical Remarks on the Modern Taste in
Gardening; 1777, 2 vols.THOMAS KYLE, or KEIL, "one of the first gardeners in Scotland, of his
time," published a Treatise on the Management of the Peach and Nectarine
Trees: to which is added, the Method of Raising and Forcing Vines; 8vo.WILLIAM MARSHALL, ESQ.who, in his "Planting and Rural Ornament," has
very properly transcribed the whole of that masterly production of Mr.Walpole's pen, his _History of the Modern Taste in Gardening_.He
observes, that "a pen guided by so masterly a hand, must ever be
productive of information and entertainment, when employed upon a
subject so truly interesting.Desirous of conveying to our readers all
the information which we can compress, with propriety, within the limits
of our plan, we wished to have given the _substance_ of this valuable
paper; but finding it already in the language of simplicity, and being
aware of the mischiefs which generally ensue in _meddling_ with the
productions of genius, we had only one alternative: either wholly to
transcribe, or wholly to reject."Marshall, alluding to the above
work of his, says, "Wheatley, Mason, and Nature, with some Experience,
and much Observation, are the principal sources from which this part of
our work was drawn; it was planned, and in part written, among the
magnificent scenes of nature, in Monmouthshire, Herefordshire, and
Gloucestershire, where the rich and the romantic are happily blended, in
a manner unparalleled in any other part of the island."In this same
work is preserved, Mr.Gray's letter on the scenery of _Grasmere Water_.His descriptions of many trees and shrubs are extremely interesting; and
he has rendered them more so by his frequent quotations from Mr.The Rural Economy of the Southern
Counties; 2 vols.--of the Midland Counties, 2 vols.--of Gloucestershire,
2 vols.--of Norfolk, 2 vols.--of Yorkshire, 2 vols.--Agriculture of the
Southern Counties, 2 vols.--Minutes of Agriculture--and a Review of the
Landscape, a didactic poem--and of an Essay on the Picturesque.of Gardening, after relating varied information respecting
him, says, that he "finally retired to a considerable property he
possessed in his native county, in the Vale of Cleveland, in 1808, where
he died, at an advanced age, in 1819.He was a man of little education,
but of a strong and steady mind: and pursued, in the most consistent
manner, from the year 1780 to his death, the plan he originally laid
down; that of collecting and condensing the agricultural practices of
the different counties of England, with a view to a general work on
Landed Property, which he published; another on Agriculture, which he
did not live to complete, and a _Rural Institute_, in which he was
supplanted by the Board of Agriculture."His observations on the
_Larch_, in vol.i. of his "Planting and Rural Ornament," and the zeal
with which he recommends the planting of it on the infertile heathy
flats of Surrey, Sussex, and Hampshire, on the bleak and barren heights
of Yorkshire, Westmoreland, Cornwall, and Devon, and on the Welch and
Salopean hills; and the powerful language with which he enforces its
valuable qualities, merit the attention of every man of property.WILLIAM SPEECHLY.He wrote Hints on Domestic Rural Economy; 8vo.On the
Culture of the Vine and Pine Apple, with Hints on the Formation of
Vineyards in England.On the Culture of the Pine Apple, and the
Management of the Hot-House; 8vo.He made a tour in Holland, chiefly to
observe the Dutch mode of cultivating the Pine, and the Grape.calls him "the Moses of modern British vine
dressers;" and in the Gardener's Magazine for January, 1828, has given
an interesting and honourable character of him.He died at Great Milton,
in 1819, aged eighty-six.[60] Marshall, in his Planting and Rural
Ornament, has given us Mr.Speechley's sensible letter on the Duke of
Portland's Plantations.Johnson says "he perhaps surpassed every
practical gardener of his age."PHILIP LE BROCQ, chaplain to the Duke of Gloucester, wrote,

1, A Description of Certain Methods of Planting, Training, and Managing
all Kinds of Fruit Trees, Vines, &c. London, 8vo.2, Sketch of a Plan for making the New Forest, a Real Forest.WALTER NICHOL, whom Mr.Loudon, in his Encyclopaedia, calls an author of
merit, and informs us that Mr.Nichol, "in the year 1810, undertook an
extensive journey through England, for the purpose of visiting the
principal seats and plantations, with a view, on his return, to compose
the _Planter's Calendar_.This work had scarcely commenced, when he was
seized with an illness which carried him off suddenly, in March, 1811."His works appear to be the following:--

The Gardener's Kalendar; or, Monthly Directory of every Branch of
Horticulture; 8vo.The Planter's Kalendar; or, the Nurseryman's and Forester's Guide; 8vo.The Villa Garden Directory; or, Monthly Index of Work to be done in
Gardens, Shrubberies, &c.; 12mo.Scotch Forcing Gardener; 8vo.Johnson says "his works are of the first authority, and rank as the
equals of those of Abercrombie, being the result of long practice during
an enlightened era of our art."JAMES MADDOCK, of the Society of Friends, and commercial florist, at
Walworth, where, about the middle of last century, he established the
florist garden there, now belonging to Milliken and Curtis.He published the Florist's Directory, and Complete Treatise
on the Culture of Flowers; 8vo.THOMAS S. D. BUCKNALL, Esq.published the Orchardist; extracted from the
Society's Trans.for the Encouragement of Arts, &c.; _with additions_.I had omitted the following, for which I am indebted to Mr.Johnson's
History of English Gardening:--

RICHARD RICHARDSON.Of either of the above enumerated Authors on Gardening, I have not been
able to discover any Portrait.[Illustration]

   Of the following we _have_ Portraits:--

LEONARD MASCALL'S portrait appears at the bottom of the curious title
page to his "Government of Cattle," 4to.He published,
in 1572, "The New Art of Planting and Grafting;" 4to.WILLIAM BULLEYN practised physic at Durham.He had
the misfortune to lose great part of his library by shipwreck.He was
thrown into prison for debt, where he wrote a great part of his medical
treatises.Bishop Tanner says he was a man of acute judgment, and true
piety.He was universally esteemed as a polished scholar, and as a man
of probity, benevolence, and piety.Pulteney:--"Of Dr.Bulleyn there is a profile with a long beard, before
his "Government of Health," and a whole length of him, in wood, prefixed
to the "Bulwarke of Defence;" which book is a collection of most of his
works.Stukely, who, in 1722, was at
the expence of having a small head of him engraved.He proves that we
had excellent apples, pears, plums, cherries and hops, of our own
growth, (before the importation of these articles into England), by
London and Kentish gardeners.His zeal for the promotion of the useful
arts of gardening, the general culture of the land, and the commercial
interests of the kingdom, deserved the highest praise; and for the
information he has left of these affairs, in his own time, posterity owe
him acknowledgments."In a note to his Life, in the Biog.folio, 1748, is a curious account of many fruits, &c. then in our
gardens.Richardson's portraits to Granger
gives us the above profile.Johnson, at page 51 of his History of
English Gardening, pointedly says, "Dr.Bulleyn deserves the veneration
of every lover of gardening, for his strenuous advocating its cause, at
a time when it had become a fashion to depreciate the products of our
English gardens."And at page 57, pays him a further just tribute.THOMAS HYLL, who, in 1574, published, in 4to., "The Profitable Arte of
Gardeninge."His interesting chapter on
Bees is annexed to these editions."[61] There appears another edition in
small 12mo.imprinted at London, in Flete-strete, neare to St.Dunstone's Church, by Thomas Marshe, 1658.There are other editions, as
1570 and 1574, 4to.; and 1563 and 1594, 16mo.Bromley thus
mentions a portrait of him:--"Thomas Hill, wooden cut, prefixed to his
Physiognomie; 12mo.A friend to Hyll, in a complimentary
letter, prefixed to the above book, thus, in part, addresses the
reader:--

   _With painfull pen the writer hath exprest in English plane,
   The needfull ayd, and mightie force, that doth in hearbes remaine,
   The time to set, the time to plant, the time to raise again,
   This man by treble diligence hath brought to light with paine._

The portraits of the Lord Chancellor BACON are well known; but in Mr.Montagu's late edition of his works, a new or juvenile portrait is
added, namely, a most expressive, intelligent, and beautiful miniature
of him at his age of eighteen, by Hilyard, of whom Dr.Donne said,

         ----_a hand or eye
   By Hilyard drawn, is worth a history
   By a worse painter._

This fine edition of his works is illustrated by five portraits, taken
at different periods of his lordship's life; by engravings of his
residence, and monument, fac-similes, and other embellishments.In
Mallett's edition are two portraits, one by Vertue, finely
engraved.[62]

GERARDE'S portrait (a fine one) is prefixed to his own edition of his
Herbal.No painter, or engraver's
name, except the initials, W. R. intertwined, which I suppose are those
of W. Rogers, the engraver.There is another good head of Gerarde, a
small oval one, in the title page to Johnson's edition.A portrait, in
oil, of Gerarde, was sold by Mr.Pulteney
reviews both these Herbals.Gerarde is highly extolled by Dr.Bulleyn,
and indeed attained deserved eminence in his day.Pulteney relates
that "the thousand novelties which were brought into England by our
circumnavigators, Raleigh and Cavendish, in 1580 and 1588, excited a
degree of attention, which at this day cannot, without the aid of
considerable recollection, be easily conceived.Raleigh himself appears
to have possessed a larger share of taste for the curious productions of
nature, than was common to the seafaring adventurers of that period.And
posterity will rank these voyagers among the greatest benefactors to
this kingdom, in having been the means, if tradition may be credited, of
introducing the most useful root that Providence has held forth for the
service of man.A voyage round the globe, howsoever familiarized in
ours, was, in that age, a most interesting and fruitful occasion of
enquiry.The return of Raleigh, and the fame of his manifold discoveries
and collections, brought over from the continent the celebrated Clusius,
then in the fifty-fifth year of his age.He, who added more to the stock
of botany, in his day, than all his contemporaries united, visited
England for the third time, to partake, at this critical juncture, in
the general gratification.At this eventful period, Gerarde was in the
vigour of life, and, without doubt, felt the influence, and reaped
the advantage of all the circumstances I have enumerated."One
of the editions of Gerarde thus appears in a bookseller's
catalogue:--"Gerarde's Herball; or Generall Historie of Plants, very
much enlarged by Johnson, folio, _beautiful impression of the
frontispiece by Payne, fine copy, old Russia, gilt back, L3.[63]


WALTER BLYTHE'S whole-length portrait (exhibiting a pensive and
penetrating aspect), is prefixed to his "English Improver Improved;" and
which work Professor Martyn terms "an original and incomparable work for
the time."Beale calls him "honest Captain Blithe."GERVASE MARKHAM'S portrait is prefixed to his "Perfect Horseman;" 8vo.It is re-engraved for Richardson's portraits to Granger.Markham
appears to have been a good soldier, as well as a good scholar.1623, "The Country House-Wife's Garden."He wrote
Herod and Antipater, a tragedy.Langbaine speaks very much in his
praise, and seemingly not without reason.Dibden, in his "Library
Companion," says, "on many accounts does Markham seem entitled to more
notice and commendation."He translated Leibault's Maison Rustique, in
1616, in 4to.or small folio, and augmented it with many additions from
Oliver de Serres, and others.Weston, in his Catalogue, says he
re-printed the editions in 1614 and 1631, of Barnaby Gooche's Husbandry.He published many books on husbandry, on fowling, on angling, on
military discipline, on horsemanship.Many of their titles are
enumerated in Langbaine, and in Weston, and they appear all to be more
fully stated in Watts's Bibl.Much information, as to Markham, may
be seen in vol.of the Censura Literaria; and in Sir E. Brydges's
edition of Phillips's Theatrum Poetarum Anglicanorum, appears, perhaps,
the best list of his works, with a brief memoir.[64]


PARKINSON'S excellent portrait, by Marshall, appears in the title page
to his _Theatrum Botanicum_, in 1640.Some one _may_ now possess the
original.In his _Paradisus_, 1635, there is a very scurvy engraving of
his healthy, and hearty-looking old countenance.In this miserable cut,
which is on wood, the graver, Christopher Switzer, does not seem to have
had a strife "_with nature to outdo the life_."Marshall's head is
re-engraved for Richardson's Illustrations to Granger.Parkinson rose to
such a degree of reputation, as to be appointed Apothecary to King
James.He was appointed herbalist to Charles I. Dr.Pulteney speaks
highly of both the above works, particularly of the _Theatrum_.All the
memorials we have of the private history of this most industrious and
zealous herbalist, are very scanty.He died about 1645, aged about 78.The curious contents of his _Paradisus_ are diffusively narrated in
Johnson's English Gardening.When perusing the pages of either of the
above, one may exclaim,

                           ----"not a tree,
   A plant, a leaf, a blossom, but contains
   A folio volume.We may read, and read,
   And read again; and still find something new,
   Something to please, and something to instruct,
   E'en in the humble weed."[Illustration]

The above is scarcely better than Switzer's.There appears no faithful
portrait of Parkinson, but Marshall's, who _had the felicity_ to draw
other portraits besides his.Hollar's striking portraits of the TRADESCANTS, are well known.On their
tomb, at Lambeth, the following lines form part of the inscription:--

   These famous Antiquarians, that had been
   Both Gardeners to the rose and lily Queen,
   Transplanted now themselves, sleep here; and when
   Angels shall with their trumpets waken men,
   And fire shall purge the world, these hence shall rise,
   And change this Garden for a Paradise.In the Ashmolean Museum, is a portrait of the SON, _in his garden_, with
a spade in his hand.Nichols's "Illustrations to Granger,"
consisting of seventy-five portraits, appear those of the Tradescants,
father and son.Smith also engraved John Tradescant, with his son, and
their monument, 1793.Weston, in his Catalogue, fully describes the
_Museum Tradescantium_.Pulteney observes, that "in a work devoted
to the commemoration of Botanists, their name stands too high not to
demand an honourable notice; since they contributed, at an early period,
by their garden and museum, to raise a curiosity that was eminently
useful to the progress and improvement of natural history in general.The reader may see a curious account of the remains of this garden,
drawn up in the year 1749, by the late Sir W. Watson, and printed in
vol.His widow erected a
curious monument, in memory of the family, in Lambeth church-yard, of
which a large account, and engravings from a drawing of it in the
Pepysian Library, at Cambridge, are given by the late learned Dr.SIR HENRY WOTTON, Provost of Eaton.His portrait is given in Isaac
Walton's Lives of Wotton, and others.It, of course, accompanies
Zouch's, and the other well-known editions of Isaac Walton's Lives.In
Evans's Illustrations to Granger, is Sir H. Wotton, from the picture in
the Bodleian Library, engraved by _Stow_.In Sir Henry's Reflections on
Ancient and Modern Learning, is his chapter "On Ancient and Modern
Agriculture and Gardening."Cowley wrote an elegy on him, which thus
commences:--

   What shall we say since silent now is he,
   Who when he spoke, all things would silent be;
   Who had so many languages in store,
   That only Fame can speak of him with more.Isaac Walton published the "_Reliquiae Wottonianae_, or, Lives, Letters,
Poems, &c. by Sir Henry Wotton," 12mo.1654, with portraits of Wotton,
Charles I., Earl of Essex, and Buckingham.Sir E. Brydges printed at his
private press, at Lee Priory, Sir Henry's Characters of the Earl of
Essex and Buckingham.In the _Reliquiae_, among many curious and
interesting articles, is preserved Sir Henry's delicately complimentary
letter to Milton on receiving from him _Comus_.Sir Henry, when a
resident at Venice, (where he was sent on three several embassies by
James) purchased for that munificent encourager of painting, the Duke of
Buckingham, several valuable pictures, which were added to the Duke's
magnificent collection.Isaac Walton's Life of Wotton thus
concludes:--"Dying worthy of his name and family, worthy of the love of
so many princes, and persons of eminent wisdom and learning, worthy of
the trust committed unto him for the service of his prince and country."And, in his Angler, he thus sweetly paints the warm attachment he had
for Wotton:--"a man with whom I have often fished and conversed, whose
learning, wit, and cheerfulness, made his company to be esteemed one of
the delights of mankind.Peace and patience, and a calm content, did
cohabit in the cheerful heart of Sir Henry Wotton."Dallaway, in his Anecdotes of the Arts, mentions
the following portrait of Sir Thomas:--"At Devonshire-house is a family
groupe, by Dobson, of Sir Thomas Browne.He is smiling with the utmost
complacency upon his children, who surround him."His portrait is also
prefixed to his works.Dict., folio, 1748, says, "his
picture, in the College of Physicians, shews him to have been remarkably
handsome, and to have possessed, in a singular degree, the blessings of
a grave, yet cheerful and inviting, countenance."The same work farther
gives him a most amiable character.Ray, in his Ornithology, does
not omit paying a just compliment to his assistant and friend, "the
deservedly famous Sir Thomas Browne."Evelyn, in 1671, mentions Sir
Thomas Browne's garden at Norwich, as containing a paradise of
varieties, and the gardens of all the inhabitants as full of excellent
flowers.Switzer says, "The noble elegance of his style has since
induced many to read his works, (of which, that of _Cyrus's gardens_ is
some of the brightest,) though they have had little inclination to the
practice of gardening itself.There remains nothing that I have heard of
his putting gardening actually into practice himself; but some of his
last works being observations on several scarce plants mentioned in
Scripture; and of Garlands and Coronary garden plants and flowers, 'tis
reasonable to suppose he did; and the love he had so early and late
discovered toward it, was completed in the delightful practice thereof."He further says, " his elaborate and ingenious pen has not a little
added to the nobleness of our subject."[65] His works were published in
1 vol.folio, 1686, with his portrait, engraved by White.His portrait
appears also to his "Certain Miscellany Tracts," 8vo.A list of his
numerous works may be seen in the Biogr.Dictionaires, or in Watts's
Bibl.It is so masterly written, that it is impossible to give even an
abstract.Kippis has, however, in part, transcribed it.He was
chosen Honorary Fellow of the College of Physicians, as a man _virtute
et literas ornatissimus_.In 1671, he received the honour of Knighthood
from Charles II., a prince, (says Dr.Johnson) "who, with many frailties
and vices, had yet skill to discover excellence, and virtue to reward it
with such honorary distinctions, at least, as cost him nothing, yet,
conferred by a king so judicious and so much beloved, had the power of
giving merit new lustre and greater popularity."Thus he lived in high
reputation, till, in his seventy-sixth year, an illness, which tortured
him a week, put an end to his life, at Norwich, on his birth-day,
October 19, 1682."Some of his last words (we are told by _Whitefoot_)
were expressions of submission to the will of God, and fearlessness of
death."Johnson observes, "It is not on the praises of others, but
on his own writings, that he is to depend for the esteem of posterity;
of which he will not be easily deprived, while learning shall have any
reverence among men: for there is no science in which he does not
discover some skill; and scarce any kind of knowledge, profane or
sacred, abstruse or elegant, which he does not appear to have cultivated
with success.His exuberance of knowledge, and plenitude of ideas,
sometimes obstruct the tendency of his reasoning, and the clearness of
his decisions.On whatever subject he employed his mind, there started
up immediately so many images before him, that he lost one by grasping
another.His memory supplied him with so many illustrations, parallel or
dependent notions, that he was always starting into collateral
considerations.But the spirit and vigour of his pursuit always gives
delight; and the reader follows him, without reluctance, through his
mazes, of themselves flowery and pleasing, and ending at the point
originally in view.There remains yet an objection against the writings
of _Browne_, more formidable than the animadversions of criticism.There
are passages from which some have taken occasion to rank him among
deists, and others among atheists.It would be difficult to guess how
any such conclusion should be formed, had not experience shewn that
there are two sorts of men willing to enlarge the catalogue of infidels.When _Browne_ has been numbered among the contemners of religion by the
fury of its friends, or the artifices of its enemies, it is no difficult
task to replace him among the most zealous professors of christianity.He may perhaps, in the ardour of his imagination, have hazarded an
expression, which a mind intent upon faults may interpret into heresy,
if considered apart from the rest of his discourse; but a phrase is not
to be opposed to volumes.There is scarcely a writer to be found, whose
profession was not divinity, that has so frequently testified his belief
of the sacred writings, has appealed to them with such unlimited
submission, or mentioned them with such unvaried reverence."His portrait by Nanteuil, and that by Kneller, holding
his _Sylva_ in his hand, are well engraved in Mr.The
following remark is from the Quarterly Review, in its review of the same
work, in 1818:--"At four years old he was taught to read by the parish
school-master, whose school was over the church porch; and 'at six his
picture was drawn by one Chanteral, no ill painter.'If this portrait,
as is not unlikely, be preserved in the family, it should have been
engraved for the present work; it would have been very interesting to
compare the countenance of such a person, in childhood, in the flower of
years, when his head was engraved by Nanteuil, and in ripe old age, when
he sat to Sir G.Evelyn, and his family, and he gives a
list of his works.He says "his picture was thrice drawn in oil; first,
in 1641, by one Vanderborcht, brought out of Germany at the same time
with Hollar, the graver, by the Earl of Arundel; a second time in 1648,
by Walker; and the third time by Sir G. Kneller, for his friend Mr.Pepys, of the Admiralty, of which that at the Royal Society is a copy.There is a print of him by Nanteuil, who likewise drew him more than
once in black and white, with Indian ink; and a picture, in crayon, by
Luterel."Evelyn lived in the busy times of Charles I., Cromwell,
Charles II., James II., and William.He had much personal intercourse
with Charles II.and James II., and was in the habits of great intimacy
with many of the ministers of those two monarchs, and of the eminent men
of those days.Foreigners, distinguished for learning or arts, who came
to England, did not leave it without visiting him.His manners we may
presume to have been of the most agreeable kind, for his company was
sought by the greatest men, not merely by inviting him to their own
tables, but by their repeated visits to him at his own house.Evelyn
lived to the great age of eighty-six, and wished these words to be
inscribed on his tomb:--"all is vanity that is not honest, and there is
no solid wisdom but in real piety."[66] Cowley, in a letter to him,
says, "I know nobody that possesses more private happiness than you do
in your garden; and yet no man who makes his happiness more publick, by
a free communication of the art and knowledge of it to others.All that
I myself am able yet to do, is only to recommend to mankind the search
of that felicity, which you instruct them how to find and to enjoy."The
Quarterly Review thus speaks of his _Sylva_:--"The Sylva remained a
beautiful and enduring memorial of his amusements, his occupations, and
his studies, his private happiness, and his public virtues.The greater
part of the woods, which were raised in consequence of Evelyn's
writings, have been cut down; the oaks have borne the British flag to
seas and countries which were undiscovered when they were planted, and
generation after generation has been coffined in the elms.The trees of
his age, which may yet be standing, are verging fast toward their decay
and dissolution: but his name is fresh in the land, and his reputation,
like the trees of an Indian Paradise, exists, and will continue to exist
in full strength and beauty, uninjured by the course of time."of Gardening, thus speaks of him:--"Evelyn is
universally allowed to have been one of the warmest friends to
improvements in gardening and planting, that has ever appeared.He is
eulogized by Wotton, in his _Reflections on Ancient and Modern
Learning_, as having done more than all former ages."Switzer calls him
"that good esquire, the king of gardeners."Walpole)
"was a course of inquiry, study, curiosity, instruction, and
benevolence.He knew that retirement, in his own hands, was industry and
benefit to mankind; in those of others, laziness and inutility."There appears the following more modern publications respecting Mr.Sylva, with Notes by Hunter; in 4to, and 8vo.Another edition, in 2
vols., 4to.Evelyn's Miscellaneous Writings, collected and edited, with Notes, by
Mr.Forming a Supplement to the Evelyn Memoirs.of Gardening enumerates the whole of Mr.Johnson in his History of
English Gardening.[67]

ABRAHAM COWLEY.That in Bishop
Hurd's edition is very neat.This same portrait is also well engraved
for Ankars's edition of Cowley; and also in that by Aikens, in 8vo.Dean
Sprat has prefixed to his edition of Cowley, his portrait, engraved by
Faithorne, and, in his preface, pays a warm and just tribute to his
memory.When his death was announced to Charles II., he declared, that
Mr.Cowley had not left a better man behind him in England.Cowley
addresses his chapter _Of Gardens_ (which strongly paints his delight in
them) to Mr.He wrote this epitaph for himself:--

   From life's superfluous cares enlarg'd,
   His debt of human toil discharg'd,
   Here COWLEY lies, beneath this shed,
   To ev'ry worldly interest _dead_:
   With decent poverty content;
   His hours of ease not idly spent;
   To fortune's goods a foe profess'd,
   And, hating wealth, by all caress'd.'Tis sure he's _dead_; for, lo!how small
   A spot of earth is now his all!wish that earth may lightly lay,
   And ev'ry care be far away!Bring flow'rs, the short-liv'd roses bring,
   To _life deceased_ fit offering!And sweets around the poet strow,
   Whilst yet with life his ashes glow.JOHN ROSE, head gardener to the Lord Essex, at Essex-house, in the
Strand.He sent him to study the celebrated beauties in the gardens of
Versailles.He became afterwards the chief gardener to Charles II., at
the royal gardens in St.His portrait may be seen at
Kensington, in an oil painting, where he is presenting a pine to his
Majesty, whilst on a visit to the Duchess of Cleveland, at Downey Court,
Buckinghamshire.It has lately been engraved in mezzotinto.He was the
author of "The English Vineyard Vindicated, and the Way of Making Wine
in France;" first printed with Evelyn's French Gardener, in 1672, 12mo.Other editions in 1675, 1676, and 1690, in 8vo.The preface is by
Evelyn, as well as The Art of Making Wine.Rose brought to great
perfection dwarf fruit trees, in the gardens at Hampton Court, Carlton,
and Marlborough House.Switzer thus speaks of him:--"He was esteemed to
be the best of his profession in those days, and ought to be remembered
for the encouragement he gave to a servant of his, that has since made
the greatest figure that ever yet any gardener did, I mean Mr.Rose may be well ranked amongst the greatest virtuosos of that time,
(now dead) who were all well pleased to accept of his company while
living."He published "The Planter's Manual," 12mo.There
is prefixed to it a rural frontispiece, by Van Houe.Johnson
properly calls him "one of the _Scriptores minores_ of horticulture."His "devoted attachment to Izaak Walton, forms the best evidence we have
of his naturally amiable disposition."Major's extensively illustrated and most attractive editions of
the Angler; a delightful book, exhibiting a "matchless picture of rural
nature."Cotton's portrait is also well engraved in Zouch's Life of
Walton; and in the many other curious and embellished editions of Walton
and Cotton's Angler.He translated with such truth and spirit, the
celebrated Essays of Montaigne, that he received from that superior
critic, the Marquis of Halifax, a most elegant encomium.Sir John
Hawkins calls it "one of the most valuable books in the English
language."Cotton's works appears in Watts's
Bibl.When describing, in his _Wonders of the Peake_, the Queen
of Scot's Pillar, he thus breaks out:--

   Illustrious _Mary_, it had happy been,
   Had you then found a cave like this to skreen
   Your sacred person from those frontier spies,
   That of a sovereign princess durst make prize,
   When Neptune too officiously bore
   Your cred'lous innocence to this faithless shore.once who hadst the only fame
   Of being kind to all who hither came
   For refuge and protection, how couldst thou
   So strangely alter thy good nature now,
   Where there was so much excellence to move,
   Not only thy compassion, but thy love?'Twas strange on earth, save _Caledonian_ ground,
   So impudent a villain could be found,
   Such majesty and sweetness to accuse;
   Or, after that, a judge would not refuse
   Her sentence to pronounce; or that being done,
   Even amongst bloody'st hangmen, to find one
   Durst, though her face was veil'd, and neck laid down,
   Strike off the fairest head e'er wore a crown.And what state policy there might be here,
   Which does with right too often interfere,
   I'm not to judge: yet thus far dare be bold,
   A fouler act the sun did ne'er behold.[68]

Plott, in his Staffordshire, calls Mr.Cotton "his worthy, learned, and
most ingenious friend."Sir John Hawkins thus speaks of him:--"He was
both a wit and a scholar; of an open, cheerful, and hospitable temper;
endowed with fine talents for conversation, and the courtesy and
affability of a gentleman."He farther thus speaks of one of his
poems:--"It is not for their courtly and elegant turn, that the verses
of Charles Cotton ought to be praised; there is such a delightful flow
of feeling and sentiment, so much of the best part of our nature mixed
up in them, and so much fancy displayed, that one of our most
distinguished living poets has adduced several passages of his Ode upon
Winter, for a general illustration of the characteristics of fancy."He
must have possessed many endearing qualities, for the benevolent and
pious Walton thus concludes a letter to his "most honoured friend,
Charles Cotton, Esq.:"--"though I be more than a hundred miles from you,
and in the eighty-third year of my age, yet I will forget both, and next
month begin a pilgrimage to beg your pardon: for I would die in your
favour, and till then will live, Sir, your most affectionate father and
friend, Isaac Walton."One cannot wonder at the good old man wishing to
visit the courteous and well-bred Mr.Cotton, and to enjoy the
intercourse of hospitable urbanity, near the pastoral streams of the
Dove, when he had received such an invitation as the following,
addressed to his "dear and most worthy friend, Mr.Isaac Walton:"--

   Whilst in this cold and blustering clime,
     Where bleak winds howl and tempests roar,
   We pass away the roughest time
     Has been of many years before;

   Whilst from the most tempestuous nooks
     The chillest blasts our peace invade,
   And by great rains our smallest brooks
     Are almost navigable made;

   Whilst all the ills are so improved,
     Of this dead quarter of the year,
   That even you, so much beloved,
     We would not now wish with us here;

   In this estate, I say, it is
     Some comfort to us to suppose,
   That, in a better clime than this,
     You, our dear friend, have more repose;

   And some delight to me the while,
     Though nature now does weep in rain,
   To think that I have seen her smile,
     And haply may I do again.If the all-ruling Power please
     We live to see another May,
   We'll recompense an age of these
     Foul days in one fine fishing day.We then shall have a day or two,
     Perhaps a week, wherein to try
   What the best master's hand can do
     With the most deadly killing fly:

   A day with not too bright a beam,
     A warm, but not a scorching sun,
   A southern gale to curl the stream,
     and, master, half our work is done.There, whilst behind some bush we wait
     The scaly people to betray,--
   We'll prove it just, with treacherous bait
     To make the preying _Trout_ our prey.And think ourselves, in such an hour,
     Happier than those, though not so high,
   Who, like _Leviathans_, devour
     Of meaner men the smaller fry.This, my best friend, at my poor home
     Shall be our pastime and our theme;
   But then--should you not deign to come,
     You make all this a flattering dream.In wandering over the lovely scenes, the pleasant brooks, the
flower-bespangled meadows, which the moral pages of Isaac Walton so
unaffectedly delineate, it is impossible not to recur to the name of the
late author of _Salmonia_, and to reflect, that on these pages he oft
unbended his vigorous mind from his severe and brilliant discoveries.We
can now only lament the (almost) premature death of this high-ranked
philosopher, this great benefactor to the arts, and deep promoter of
science, whose mortal remains were consigned to his unostentatious tomb,
at Geneva, in one of the finest evenings of summer, followed by the
eloquent and amiable historian, De Sismondi, and by other learned and
illustrious men.One may apply to his last moments at Geneva, (where he
had arrived only one day before) these lines of his own favourite
Herbert:--

   _Sweet day, so cool, so calm, so bright,
     The bridal of the earth and sky,
   Sweet dews shall weep thy fall to-night,
     For thou must die!_[69]


SAMUEL GILBERT'S portrait is prefixed to his "Florist's Vade Mecum;"
12mo.In his "Gardener's Almanack," is a particular description of the
roses cultivated in the English gardens at that period.He was the
author of "Fons Sanitatis, or the Healing Spring at Willowbridge Wells."He was son-in-law to John Rea, the author of Flora, and who planned the
gardens at Gerard's Bromley.Willowbridge Wells are at a little distance
from where these once superb gardens were.JACOB BOBART, the elder, is an admirable portrait, by D. Loggan, taken
at his age of eighty-one, and engraved by Burghers.Beneath the head, which is dated 1675, is this
distich:--

   _Thou Germane prince of plants, each year to thee,
   Thousands of subjects grant a subsidy._

It is a venerable countenance, of deep thought.Richardson re-engraved
this among his Illustrations to Granger.Granger mentions also a
whole-length of Bobart in a garden, dog, goat, &c.of
Gardening says, "Bobart's descendants are still in Oxford, and known as
coach proprietors."The
munificence of the Earl of Danby placed Bobart in the physic garden at
Oxford, in 1632, as supervisor; and this garden flourished many years
under his care, and that of his son Jacob, whose zeal and diligence Dr.The elder Bobart was the author of the _Hortus
Oxoniensis_, 1648.Wood, in his Athenae, informs us, that "Jacob Bobart
died in his garden-house, in February, 1679, whereupon his body was
buried in the church of St.He left two sons, _Jacob_ and
_Tillemant_.Tillemant became a master coachman between Oxford and
London, but having had the misfortune to break his leg, became one of
the beadles of the university.Nicholls's late
curious work on autographs, among other _albums_, in the British Museum,
it mentions that of David Krein, in which is the autograph of Jacob
Bobart, with these verses;--

             ----"virtus sua gloria.Think that day lost whose descending sun
   Views from thy hand no noble action done.Yr success and happyness
               is sincerely wished by
                     Ja.It appears from Ray's History of Plants, that Jacob Bobart, the son, was
a frequent communicator to him of scarce plants.It was this son who
published the second volume of Morrison's Oxford History of Plants, who
wrote its excellent preface, and who engaged _Burghers_ to engrave many
of the new plants; which engravings are highly commended by Pulteney.Johnson, in page 148 of his History of Gardening, thus pays Bobart a
high compliment:--"a phalanx of botanists were then contemporaries,
which previous ages never equalled, nor succeeding ones surpassed.Ray,
Tournefort, Plumier, Plukenet, Commelin, Rivinus, _Bobart_, Petiver,
Sherard, Boccone, Linnaeus, may be said to have lived in the same age."His portrait is engraved by Vertue, from after Verelst,
and prefixed to his translation of _Rapin on Gardens_, 8vo.I believe he also wrote
"On the Beatitudes;" 2 vols.Switzer says, that this "incomparable
Latin poem was translated by an ingenious and worthily dignified
clergyman, and a great lover of gardening, Mr.Gardiner, Sub-Dean of
Lincoln."He became afterwards (I believe) Bishop of Lincoln; and a
Latin epitaph on this bishop is in Peck's _Desid.Curiosa._ There is a
print of "Jacobus Gardiner, Episc.Lincoln," engraved by George White,
from after Dahl.Vanderbane's engraving, from Sir Peter Lely's, is particularly fine.Vertue's engravings, from Sir Peter, in the folio editions of 1720 and
1740, are also fine.This same portrait is neatly engraved in the late
Mr.Houbraken has also engraved the same
for Birch's Lives.Sir William Temple, after spending twenty years in
negociations with foreign powers, retired in 1680 from public life, and
employed his time in literary pursuits.He was ambassador for many years
at the court of Holland, and there acquired his knowledge and taste in
gardening.He had a garden at Sheen, and afterwards, another at Moor
Park, where he died in 1700; and though his body was buried in
Westminster Abbey, his heart was enclosed in a silver urn under a
sun-dial in the latter garden.His Essay "Upon the Gardens of Epicurus,
or of Gardening in the year 1685," is printed in all the editions of his
works.[70] These works are published in 2 vols.Switzer, in his History of Gardening, first published in 1715, says,
"That he was a great lover of gardening, appears by his own writings,
and several kinds of fruit brought over by him out of Holland, &c. as
well as by the testimony of his neighbours _yet living_, the greatest
consolation of his life being, in the lucid intervals he had from public
employs, in his beloved gardens at _Sheen_."And, in his Fruit Gardener
he says, that "the magnificence and generosity of this great lover of
planting, distributed vast numbers of the finest grapes among the
nurserymen about London, as well as amongst the nobility and gentry."Lord Mountmorris thus speaks of him:--"The retirement of this great man
has bequeathed the most invaluable legacy to posterity.Of the taste and
elegance of his writings too much can never be said, illuminated as they
are by that probity and candour which pervade them, and those charms
which render truth irresistible.Though other writers may be more the
objects of imitation to the scholar, yet his style is certainly the best
adapted to the politician and the man of fashion; nor would such an
opinion be given, were it not for an anecdote of Swift, which I had from
the late Mr.Sheridan, who told me the dean always recommended him as
the best model, and had repeatedly said that the style of Sir William
Temple was the easiest, the most liberal, and the most brilliant
in our language.In a word, when we consider his probity, his
disinterestedness, his contempt of wealth, the genuine beauty of his
style, which was as brilliant, as harmonious, and as pure as his life
and manners; when we reflect upon the treasures which he has bequeathed
by his example and by his works to his country, which no man ever loved
better, or esteemed more; we cannot avoid considering Sir William Temple
as one of the greatest characters which has appeared upon the political
stage; and he may be justly classed with the greatest names of
antiquity, and with the most brilliant characters which adorn and
illustrate the Grecian or Roman annals."Mason, in his English
Garden, contrasts Sir William's idea of "a perfect garden," with those
of Lord Bacon, and Milton; but he candidly says,

                        ----and yet full oft
   O'er Temple's studious hour did truth preside,
   Sprinkling her lustre o'er his classic page;
   There hear his candour own, in fashion's spite,
   In spite of courtly dulness hear it own,
   _There is a grace in wild variety
   Surpassing rule and order._ Temple, yes,
   There is a grace; and let eternal wreaths
   Adorn their brows who fixt its empire here."He then, in glowing lines, pays an animated tribute to Addison, Pope,
and Kent.Hume records that "he was full of honour and humanity."Sir
William thus concludes one of his philosophic essays:--"When this is
done, human life is, at the greatest and the best, but like a froward
child, that must be played with and humoured a little to keep it quiet
till it falls asleep, and then the care is over."His garden was one of
his last delights.He knew what kind of life was best fitted to make a
man's last days happy.Walpole, though he censures Sir William's
warm panegyric on the garden at Moor Park, yet scruples not doing him
full justice, in styling him an excellent man, and an admired writer,
whose style, as to his garden, is animated with the colouring and glow
of poetry.Cobbett, in his _English Gardener_, thus deplores the
fate of Moor Park:--"This really wise and excellent man, Sir W. Temple,
who, while he possessed the soundest judgment, and was employed in some
of the greatest concerns of his country, so ardently, yet so rationally
and unaffectedly, praises the pursuits of gardening, in which he
delighted from his youth to his old age; and of his taste in which, he
gave such delightful proofs in those gardens and grounds at Moor Park,
beneath the turf of one spot of which, he caused by his will, his heart
to be buried, and which spot, together with all the rest of the
beautiful arrangement, has been torn about and disfigured within the
last fifty years, by a succession of wine merchants, spirit merchants,
West Indians, and God knows what besides."And, in his _Woodlands_, he
says, "I have stood for hours, when a little boy, looking at this object
(the canal and borders of beautiful flowers at Moor Park); I have
travelled far since, and have seen a great deal; but I have never seen
any thing of the gardening kind so beautiful in the whole course of my
life."Johnson, in his History of English Gardening, after noticing
many general particulars of Sir William, devotes an interesting page to
Sir William's attachment to gardening; and every line in this generous
page, betrays his own delight in this art.He thus concludes this
page:--"Nothing can demonstrate more fully the delight he took in
gardening, than the direction left in his will, that his heart should be
buried beneath the sun-dial of his garden, at Moor Park, near Farnham,
in Surrey.In accordance with which, it was deposited there in a silver
box, affording another instance of the ruling passion unweakened even in
death.Nor was this an unphilosophical clinging to that which it was
impossible to retain; but rather that grateful feeling, common to our
nature, of desiring finally to repose where in life we have been happy.In his garden, Sir William Temple had spent the calmest hours of a
well-spent life, and where his heart had been most peaceful, he wished
its dust to mingle, and thus, at the same time, offering his last
testimony to the sentiment, that in a garden

   _Hic secura quies, et nescia fallere vita._"

JOHN LOCKE wrote "Observations upon the Growth of Vines and Olives; the
Production of Silk, the Preservation of Fruits.Written at the request
of the Earl of Shaftesbury; now first printed from the original
manuscript in the possession of the present Earl of Shaftesbury, 1s.Among the many portraits we have of this learned man, the
public are indebted to Lord King, for having prefixed to his Life of Mr.Locke, a very fine portrait of him, from after Greenhill.This great and
good man possessed, in the highest degree, those virtues that have
given him a claim to the highest rank in the admiration of posterity.In
Rutter's delineations of a part of Somersetshire, he gives a neat
wood-cut of the cottage at Wrington, wherein Locke was born, and he
informs us, that in the garden belonging to Mrs.Hannah More, near that
village, she has placed an urn commemorative of Locke, which was a gift
to her from the justly celebrated Mrs.He was drawn also by
Kneller.Bromley gives a list of many of his engraved portraits.Houbraken engraved one for Birch's Lives.Vertue gave two engravings
from Kneller.WILLIAM FLEETWOOD, successively Bishop of St.Asaph and Ely, and who
died in 1723, was author of "Curiosities of Nature and Art in Husbandry
and Gardening," 8vo.His portrait is prefixed to his "Sermons on
the Relative Duties," 8vo.1716; and also to his "Essay on the
Miracles."His works were published in a collected form in 1 vol.He was incontestibly the best preacher in his time.Doddridge
calls him "silver tongued."Pope's line of

   _The gracious dew of pulpit eloquence_,

might, no doubt, have been justly applied to him.Drake, in the
third volume of his Essays, to illustrate the Tatler, Spectator, and
Guardian, has some interesting pages respecting him.His benevolent
heart and exemplary life, added great effect to his persuasive eloquence
in the pulpit."His sermons (says Lempriere), and divinity tracts, were
widely circulated; but the firmness of his opinions drew upon him the
censure of the House of Commons.His preface to his sermons on the
deaths of Mary, the Duke of Gloucester, and of William, and on the
accession of Anne, gave such offence to the ministry, that the book was
publicly burnt in 1712; but it was more universally read, and even
appeared in the Spectator, No.Johnson
remarked, that fire is a conclusive, but not a convincing argument; it
will certainly destroy any book, but it refutes none.[71] In an
_Obituary_, preserved in Peck's Desid.Curiosa, it thus mentions the
death of a Jeffery Fleetwood, "leaving a wife and six little children
behind him.One of these little children was the famous
William Fleetwood, Bishop of Ely."JOSEPH ADDISON, Esq.There is an original portrait of this eminent man,
at Holland House.Noble's continuation of Granger
enumerates several engravings of him, from Kneller's portraits.Dayl,
the painter, also drew him.In
Ireland's "Picturesque Views on the River Avon," he gives an interesting
description of Mr.Addison's house at Bilton, near Rugby, two miles from
Dunchurch; with a view of the same.The house "remains precisely in the
state it was at the decease of its former possessor, nor has the
interior suffered much change in its former decoration.The furniture
and pictures hold their places with an apparent sacred attention to his
memory.Among the latter, are three of himself, at different periods of
his life; in each of which is strongly marked with the pencil, the ease
of the gentleman, and the open and ingenuous character of the friend to
humanity."Drake's Biographical Sketch of Addison, it appears,
that these portraits were still remaining in his house in 1797.A copy
of the above view is given in the Monthly Magazine for February, 1822,
and it there says, that "the spacious gardens retain the fashion of the
age of the Spectator."The origin of the modern style of landscape
gardening, or the first writers on that subject, were unquestionably Mr.414 and 477 of the _Spectator_, and Mr.Pope in his
celebrated _Guardian_.The first artists who practised in this style,
were Bridgman and Kent.Addison's pure taste on these subjects
is visible even where he prefers Fontainebleau to the magnificent
Versailles, in his paper in the _Guardian_, No.101:--"It is situated
among rocks and woods, that give you a fine variety of savage prospects.The king has humoured the genius of the place, and only made use of so
much art as is necessary to help and regulate nature, without reforming
her too much.The cascades seem to break through the clefts and cracks
of rocks that are covered over with moss, and look as if they were piled
upon one another by accident.There is an artificial wildness in the
meadows, walks, and canals; and the garden, instead of a wall, is fenced
on the lower end by a natural mound of rock-work that strikes the eye
very agreeably.For my part, I think there is something more charming in
these rude heaps of stone than in so many statues, and would as soon see
a river winding through woods and meadows, as when it is tossed up in so
many whimsical figures at Versailles."414 of his Spectator, he
says, "English gardens are not so entertaining to the fancy as those in
France, and Italy, where we see a large extent of ground covered over
with an agreeable mixture of garden, and forest, which represent every
where an artificial rudeness, much more charming than that neatness and
elegancy which we meet with in those of our own country."Murphy
thus compares Addison with Johnson:--"Addison lends grace and ornament
to truth; Johnson gives it force and energy.Addison makes virtue
amiable; Johnson represents it as an awful duty."Addison has been
called the English Fenelon.Johnson calls him the Raphael of essay
writers.The imposing and commanding attitude of the statue erected a
few years since in the Poets' Corner, seems to have arisen, and to have
been devoted to his memory, from his _Reflections on the Tombs in the
Abbey_.Those reflections I here subjoin; and I am sure my reader will
agree with me, that I could not offer a purer honour to his genius and
memory:--"No.26, Friday, March 30._Pallida mors aequo pulsat pede pauperum tabernas
     Regumque turres, O beate sexti.Vitae summa brevis spem nos vetat inchoare longam,
     Jam te premet nox, fabulaeque manes,
   Et domus exilis Plutonia._--HOR.With equal foot, rich friend, impartial fate
   Knocks at the cottage, and the palace gate:
   Life's span forbids thee to extend thy cares,
   And stretch thy hopes beyond thy tender years:
   Night soon will seize, and you must quickly go
   To storied ghosts, and _Pluto's_ house below.--CREECH."When I am in a serious humour, I very often walk by myself in
Westminster Abbey; where the gloominess of the place, and the use to
which it is applied, with the solemnity of the building, and the
condition of the people who lie in it, are apt to fill the mind with a
kind of melancholy, or rather thoughtfulness, that is not disagreeable.I yesterday passed a whole afternoon in the church-yard, the cloisters,
and the church, amusing myself with the tomb-stones and inscriptions
that I met with in those several regions of the dead.Most of them
recorded nothing else of the buried person, but that he was born upon
one day and died upon another: the whole history of his life being
comprehended in those two circumstances, that are common to all mankind.I could not but look upon these registers of existence, whether of brass
or marble, as a kind of satire upon the departed persons; who had left
no other memorial of them, but that they were born and that they died.They put me in mind of several persons mentioned in the battles of
heroic poems, who have sounding names given them, for no other reason
but that they may be killed, and are celebrated for nothing but being
knocked on the head._Glaucumque, Medontaque, Thersilochumque._--VIRG."The life of these men is finely described in holy writ by _the path of
an arrow_, which is immediately closed up and lost.Upon my going into
the church, I entertained myself with the digging of a grave; and saw in
every shovel-full of it that was thrown up, the fragment of a bone or
skull intermixed with a kind of fresh mouldering earth that some time or
other had a place in the composition of an human body.Upon this I began
to consider with myself what innumerable multitudes of people lay
confused together under the pavement of that ancient cathedral; how men
and women, friends and enemies, priests and soldiers, monks and
prebendaries, were crumbled amongst one another, and blended together in
the same common mass; how beauty, strength, and youth, with old age,
weakness, and deformity, lay undistinguished in the same promiscuous
heap of matter.After having thus surveyed this great magazine of
mortality, as it were in the lump; I examined it more particularly by
the accounts which I found on several of the monuments which are raised
in every quarter of that ancient fabrick.Some of them were covered with
such extravagant epitaphs, that if it were possible for the dead person
to be acquainted with them, he would blush at the praises which his
friends have bestowed upon him.There are others so excessively modest,
that they deliver the character of the person departed in _Greek_ or
_Hebrew_, and by that means are not understood once in a twelvemonth.In
the poetical quarter, I found there were poets who had no monuments, and
monuments which had no poets.I observed indeed that the present war had
filled the church with many of these uninhabited monuments, which had
been erected to the memory of persons whose bodies were buried in the
plains of _Blenheim_, or in the bosom of the ocean.I could not but be
very much delighted with several modern epitaphs, which are written with
great elegance of expression and justness of thought, and therefore do
honour to the living as well as to the dead.As a foreigner is very apt
to conceive an idea of the ignorance or politeness of a nation from the
turn of their public monuments and inscriptions, they should be
submitted to the perusal of men of learning and genius before they are
put in execution.Sir_Cloudesly Shovel's_ monument has very often given
me great offence: instead of the brave rough _English_ admiral, which
was the distinguishing character of that plain gallant man, he is
represented on his tomb by the figure of a beau, dressed in a long
periwig, and reposing himself upon velvet cushions under a canopy of
state.The inscription is answerable to the monument; for, instead of
celebrating the many remarkable actions he had performed in the service
of his country, it acquaints us only with the manner of his death, in
which it was impossible for him to reap any honour.The _Dutch_, whom we
are apt to despise for want of genius, shew an infinitely greater taste
of antiquity and politeness in their buildings and works of this nature,
than what we meet with in those of our own country.The monuments of
their admirals, which have been erected at the public expense, represent
them like themselves; and are adorned with rostral crowns and naval
ornaments, with beautiful festoons of sea-weed, shells, and coral.I have left the repository of our English
kings for the contemplation of another day, when I shall find my mind
disposed for so serious an amusement.I know that entertainments of this
nature are apt to raise dark and dismal thoughts in timorous minds, and
gloomy imaginations; but, for my own part, though I am always serious,
I do not know what it is to be melancholy; and can therefore take a view
of nature in her deep and solemn scenes, with the same pleasure as in
her most gay and delightful ones.By this means I can improve myself
with those objects which others consider with terror.When I look upon
the tombs of the great, every emotion of envy dies in me; when I read
the epitaphs of the beautiful, every inordinate desire goes out; when I
meet with the grief of parents upon a tomb-stone, my heart melts with
compassion; when I see the tomb of the parents themselves, I consider
the vanity of grieving for those whom we must quickly follow: When I see
kings lying by those who deposed them, when I consider rival wits placed
side by side, or the holy men that divided the world with their contests
and disputes, I reflect with sorrow and astonishment on the little
competitions, factions, and debates of mankind.When I read the several
dates of the tombs, of some that died yesterday, and some six hundred
years ago, I consider that great day when we shall all of us be
contemporaries, and make our appearance together.JOHN LAWRENCE published "The Clergyman's Recreation, shewing the
Pleasure and Profit of the Art of Gardening;" 8vo.Also a poem,
called "Paradise Regained, or the Art of Gardening;" 8vo.The
sixth edition of "The Clergyman's Recreation" has "the effigies of the
author, engraved by Vertue."I have seen eight copies of this sixth
edition, and in neither of them has this portrait been.No doubt the
collecting to form Granger's, has deprived each copy of its portrait.This is an expressive portrait, ornamented with a vine wreath, and with
a rich cornucopia or clusters of ripe fruit.The original picture from
which Vertue's print was taken, was at Pallion, near Durham, the seat of
his grandson, John Goodchild, Esq.In Rodd's catalogue of engraved
portraits, printed a few years ago, was "John Lawrence, prebend of
Salisbury, _original drawing by Vertue_, price 5s."Lawrence
published also, in folio, in 1726, his System of Agriculture and
Gardening.of his Literary Anecdotes, has given
a list of all his works, has preserved a few particulars respecting him,
and pays a just tribute to him.A list of his works may also be seen in
Watts's Bibl.of Gardening
informs us that he was "of a hospitable and benevolent disposition,
taking great pleasure in presenting a rich dessert of fruit to his
friends."He was presented to the rectory of Yelvertoft,
Northamptonshire, in 1703, "by the extraordinary uncommon bounty of a
generous patron."In 1721, he was presented to that of Bishop's
Wearmouth, Durham, where he died in 1732.He was also a prebend of
Salisbury.Lawrence thus enforces the pleasures of a garden, to his own
order:--"to make them happy by loving an innocent diversion, the
amusements of a garden being not only most delightful to those that love
them, but most wholesome to those that use them.A good man knows how to
recapitulate all his pleasures in a devout lifting up of his hands, his
eyes and his heart, to the great and bountiful author of nature, who
gives beauty, relish, and success to all our honest labours."His pen
likewise paints with "soft and tempting colours," the extreme beauty of
our fruit-trees, when clothed with their different coloured blossoms,
(what Lord Byron calls _the sweet and blooming fruits of
earth_):--"What a pleasing entertainment is it to the eye, to behold
the apricot in its full blossom, white as snow, and at the same time the
peach with its crimson-coloured blooms; both beginning to be
interspersed with green leaves!These are succeeded by the pear, the
cherry, and the plum, whose blossoms and leaves make a very beautiful
mixture in the spring; and it cannot be a less pleasant sight to see
clusters of swelling fruit all the summer, as the earnest of the full
gratification of another sense in autumn.And now we have come hither,
what painter can draw a landskip more charming and beautiful to the eye,
than an old Newington peach-tree laden with fruit in August, when the
sun has first begun to paint one side of the fruit with such soft and
tempting colours?The apricot, the pear, the cherry and plum, when they
appear in plenty as they ought, present themselves to the eye at the
time of ripening in very inviting blushes.In short, all the several
sorts of fruit trees have such pleasing varieties, that were there no
other sense to be gratified but the sight, they may vie with a parterre
even of the finest flowers."He thus mentions the month of _July_:--"How
beautiful and refreshing are the mornings and evenings of such days,
when the very air is perfumed with pleasant odours, and every thing that
presents itself to the eye gives fresh occasion to the devout admirer to
praise and adore the Great Creator, who hath given such wisdom and power
to man to diversify nature in such various instances, and (for his own
use, pleasure, and profit,) to assist her in all her operations."This
worthy clergyman might have applied to the delights of a garden, the
sacred words of scripture:--"her ways are ways of pleasantness, and all
her paths are peace."[75]

ALEXANDER POPE.Numerous are the engraved portraits of this graceful and
harmonious poet.Noble's continuation of Granger, gives all, or the
greater part of the engravings from his portraits, from which it will be
seen, that he was drawn by Kneller, by Richardson, by many others, and
particularly by his friend Jervas.Pope's attachment to him, however, has enshrined
his name in glowing lines to future generations.The portraits of Pope
which Jervas drew, were done _con amore_.Jennings, of Cheapside,
has prefixed to his elegant folio edition of the "Essay on Man," a
_whole-length_ of Mr.In Dodsley's Collection
of Poems, vol.Pope, as an
accompaniment to Mr.Dodsley's affecting poem to his memory, which he
entitles _The Cave of Pope_.Surely this bust must have strongly
resembled Pope, or Mr.The profile
to Ruffhead's Life, in 4to.1769, _must_ have been a likeness, or Bishop
Warburton would not have permitted its insertion.His age was then
twenty-four.It is finely engraved by Ravenet, from Kneller.A copy of this is admirably engraved in Bell's Poets,
richly ornamented.A copy from that by Richardson is prefixed to
Warton's edition.Among the portraits at _Hagley_, is that of Pope, and
his dog Bounce, by Richardson.[76] Lord Chesterfield thus speaks of
Pope:--"His poor, crazy, deformed body, was a mere Pandora's box,
containing all the physical ills that ever afflicted humanity.This,
perhaps, whetted the edge of his satire, and may, in some degree, excuse
it.I will say nothing of his works; they speak sufficiently for
themselves; they will live as long as taste and letters shall remain in
this country, and be more and more admired, as envy and resentment shall
subside.But I will venture this piece of classical blasphemy: which is,
that however he may be supposed to be obliged to Horace, Horace is more
obliged to him."Ruffhead (generally supposed to have had his
information from Dr.Warburton) thus states:--"Mr.Pope was low in
stature, and of a diminutive and misshapen figure, which no one
ridiculed more pleasantly than himself.His constitution was naturally
tender and delicate, and in his temper he was naturally mild and
gentle, yet sometimes betrayed that exquisite sensibility which is the
concomitant of genius.His lively perception and delicate feeling,
irritated by wretched ill health, made him too quickly take fire, but
his good sense and humanity soon rendered him placable.With regard to
the extent of his genius, it was so wide and various, that perhaps it
may not be too much to say, that he excelled in every species of
composition; and, beside his excellence as a poet, he was both an
antiquarian and an architect, and neither in an inferior degree.[77] No
man ever entertained more exalted notions of friendship, or was ever
more sincere, steady, warm, and disinterested, in all his attachments.Every inch of his heart was let out in lodgings for his friends."Lord
Orrery thus speaks of him:--"His prose writings are little less
harmonious than his verse; and his voice, in common conversation, was so
naturally musical, that I remember honest Tom Southern used to call him
the Little Nightingale; his manners were delicate, easy, and engaging;
he treated his friends with a politeness that charmed, and a generosity
that was much to his honour.Every guest was made happy within his
doors; pleasure dwelt under his roof, and elegance presided at his
table."I
will merely select one or two instances.In a letter to _Swift_, he
says, "My house is too large; my gardens furnish too much wood and
provision for _my_ use.They
have intermarried, and are become rather low friends than servants.Would to God you would come over with Lord Orrery, whose care of you in
the voyage I could so certainly depend on; and bring with you your old
housekeeper, and two or three servants.I have room for all, a heart for
all, and (think what you will) a fortune for all."In another letter to
Swift, he says, "I wish you had any motive to see this kingdom.I could
keep you; for I am rich, that is, I have more than I want.I can afford
room for yourself and two servants.I have, indeed, room enough, nothing
but myself at home: the kind and hearty housewife is dead!the agreeable
and instructive neighbour is gone!yet my house is enlarged, and the
gardens extend and flourish, as knowing nothing of the guests they have
lost.I have more fruit trees and kitchen garden than you have any
thought of; nay, I have good melons and pineapples of my own growth."Allen_, he says, "Let me know your day for coming, and
I will have every room in my house as warm for you as the owner always
would be."Mathias, in his Pursuits of Literature, (besides
expatiating with fond delight, in numerous pages, on the genius of
Pope,) thus speaks of him:--"Familiar with the great, intimate with the
polite, graced by the attentions of the fair, admired by the learned, a
favourite with the nation, independent in an acquired opulence, the
honourable product of his genius, and of his industry; the companion of
persons distinguished for their virtue, birth, high fashion, rank, or
wit, and resident in the centre of all public information and
intelligence; every avenue to knowledge, and every mode of observation
were open to his curious, prying, piercing, and unwearied
intellect."[78]

One may with truth further apply to Mr.Pope what was said of Buchanan,
that his mind was stored with all the fire, and all the graces of
ancient literature.Pope's attachment to _gardens_, appears not only
in his letter to Martha Blount, describing Sir W. Raleigh's seat--but in
his own garden at Twickenham, (where, as Mr.Loudon feelingly observes,
_only the soil of which now remains_)--and in his letter to Mr.Blount,
describing his grotto--but it also bursts forth in many passages
throughout his works--and in his celebrated _Guardian_ (No.173), which
attacks, with the keenest wit, "our study to recede from nature," in our
giants made out of yews, and lavender pigs with sage growing in their
bellies.His epistle to Lord Burlington confirms the charms he felt in
studying nature.Mason, in a note to his English Garden, says, "I
had before called Bacon the prophet, and Milton, the herald of true
taste in gardening.The former, because, in developing the constituent
properties of a princely garden, he had largely expatiated upon that
adorned natural wildness which we now deem the essence of the art.The
latter, on account of his having made this natural wildness the leading
idea in his exquisite description of Paradise.I here call Addison,
_Pope_, Kent, &c. the champions of this true taste."Mason has
added an _&c._, may we not add to these respected names, that of honest
old Bridgman?It was the determination of Lord Byron (had his life been
longer spared), to have erected, at his own expence, a monument to
Pope.[79] We can gather even from his rapid and hurried "Letter on the
Rev.W. L. Bowles's Strictures," his attachment to the high name of
Pope:--"If Lucretius had not been spoiled by the Epicurean system, we
should have had a far superior poem to any now in existence.As mere
poetry, it is the first of Latin poems.Pope has not this defect; his moral is as pure as his poetry is
glorious."--"Pope's charities were his own, and they were noble and
extensive, far beyond his fortune's warrant."--"I have loved and
honoured the fame and name of that illustrious and unrivalled man, far
more than my own paltry renown, and the trashy jingle of the crowd of
schools and upstarts, who pretend to rival, or even surpass him.Sooner
than a single leaf should be torn from _his_ laurel, it were better that
all which these men, and that I, as one of their set, have ever
written, should

   Line trunks, clothe spice, or, fluttering in a row,
   Befringe the rails of Bedlam, or Soho.""The most _perfect_ of our poets, and the purest of our moralists."--"He
is the _moral_ poet of all civilization; and, as such, let us hope that
he will one day be the national poet of mankind.He is the only poet
that never shocks; the only poet whose _faultlessness_ has been made his
reproach.Cast your eye over his productions; consider their extent, and
contemplate their variety:--pastoral, passion, mock-heroic, translation,
satire, ethics,--all excellent, and often perfect.If his great charm be
his _melody_, how comes it that foreigners adore him even in their
diluted translations?Mason has also farther recorded the resplendent fame of this
celebrated man; for in his _Musaeus_, a monody to the memory of Pope, he
invokes the shades of Chaucer, Spencer, and Milton, to do homage to his
departing spirit:--

                 ----to cheer thee at this rueful time
   While black death doth on thy heart-strings prey.So may we greet thee with a nobler strain,
   When soon we meet for aye in yon star-sprinkled plain.Milton thus begins _his_ homage:--

   Thrice hail, thou heaven-taught warbler, last and best
   Of all the train!Poet, in whom conjoin'd
   All that to ear, or heart, or head, could yield
   Rapture; harmonious, manly, clear, sublime!Accept this gratulation: may it cheer
   Thy sinking soul; or these corporeal ills
   Ought daunt thee, nor appal.Know, in high heav'n
   Fame blooms eternal on that spirit divine,
   Who builds immortal verse."[81]

Sir E. Brydges, in his "Letters on the Genius of Lord Byron," thus
characterizes the grace and sweetness of his pathetic powers, in his
_Eloisa_:--"When either his passions or imaginations _were_ roused, they
were deep, strong, and splendid.Notwithstanding _Eloisa_ was an
historical subject, his invention of circumstances of detail, his
imagery, the changes and turns of passion, the brilliancy of hues thrown
upon the whole, the eloquence, the tenderness, the fire, the inimitable
grace and felicity of language, were all the fruits of creative genius.This poem stands alone in its kind; never anticipated, and never likely
to be approached hereafter."Young uttered this sublime apostrophe when the death of Pope was first
announced to him:--

   _Thou, who couldst make immortals_, art thou dead?Of his _Essay on Man_, the Nouveau Dict.Portatif thus
speaks:--"Une metaphysique lumineuse, ornee des charmes de la poesie,
une morale touchante, dont les lecons penetrent le coeur et
convainquent l'esprit, des peintures vives, ou l'homme apprend a se
connoitre, pour apprendre a deviner meilleur; tels sont les principaux
caracteres qui distinguent le poeme Anglois.Son imagination est
egalement sage et feconde, elle prodigue les pensees neunes, et donne le
piquant de la nouveante, aux pensees anciennes; il embelloit les
matieres les plus seches, par la coloris d'une elocution noble, facile,
energeque, variee avec un art infini."In the gardens of Stowe is the following inscription to

                       ALEXANDER POPE,
           Who, uniting the correctness of judgment
                    To the fire of genius,
           By the melody and power of his numbers,
        Gave sweetness to sense, and grace to philosophy.He employed the pointed brilliancy of his wit
                    To chastise the vices,
                 And the eloquence of poetry
             To exalt the virtues of human nature;
           And, being without a rival in his own age,
   Imitated and translated with a spirit equal to the originals,
                   The best Poets of antiquity.WILLIAM KENT, whose portrait appears in Mr.Dallaway's rich edition of
the Anecdotes of Painting.Kent, with Bridgman, Pope, and Addison, have
been termed the fathers of landscape gardening.Walpole, after
reviewing the old formal style of our gardens, in language which it is
painful to me thus only to advert to, instead of copying at length, (for
I am fully "aware of the mischiefs which generally ensue in _meddling_
with the productions of genius"); and after stating that when _nature_
was taken into the plan, every step pointed out new beauties, and
inspired new ideas: "at that moment appeared Kent, painter enough to
taste the charms of landscape, bold and opiniative enough to dare and to
dictate, and born with a genius to strike out a great system from the
twilight of imperfect essays.He leaped the fence, and saw that all
nature was a garden.Thus the pencil of his imagination bestowed all the
arts of landscape on the scenes he handled.But of all the beauties he
added to the face of this beautiful country, none surpassed his
management of water.Thus, dealing in none but the colours of nature,
and catching its most favourable features, men saw a new creation
opening before their eyes."And again he calls him "the inventor of an
art that realizes painting, and improves nature: Mahomet imagined an
elysium, but Kent created many."The greatest of all authorities tells
us, that in Esher's peaceful grove, both

   Kent and Nature vied for Pelham's love.Mason, in his English Garden, thus panegyrises his elysian scenes:--

                       ---- Kent, who felt
   The pencil's power; but fix'd by higher hopes
   Of beauty than that pencil knew to paint,
   Work'd with the living lives that _nature_ lent,
   And realized his landscapes.Pope, as well as Kent, would, and Mr.Mason, must
each of them have read with high approbation the following remark of the
late Sir Uvedale Price:--"the noble and varied works of the eminent
painters of every age and every country, and those of their supreme
mistress, Nature, should be the great models of imitation."Whateley paints in glowing language, the genius of Kent, both at
Stowe, and at Claremont.George Mason thus honestly and finely
pleads for him:--"According to my own ideas, all that has since been
done by the most deservedly admired designers, as Southcote, Hamilton,
Lyttleton, Pitt, Shenstone, Morris, for themselves, and by Wright for
others, all that has been written on the subject, even the gardening
didactic poem, and the didactic essay on the picturesque, have proceeded
from Kent.Had Kent never exterminated the bounds of regularity, never
actually traversed the way to freedom of manner, would any of these
celebrated artists have found it of themselves?Theoretic hints from the
highest authorities, had evidently long existed without sufficient
effect.And had not these great masters actually executed what Kent's
example first inspired, them with, the design of executing, would the
subsequent writers on gardening have been enabled to collect materials
for precepts, or stores for their imaginations?Price acknowledges
himself an admirer of the water-scene at Blenheim.Would it ever have
appeared in its present shape, if no Kent had previously abolished the
stiffness of canals!If this original artist had barely rescued the
liquid element from the constraint of right lines and angles, that
service alone would have given him an indubitable claim to the respect
of posterity."Coventry, in his admirable exposure of the
grotesque absurdities in gardening, (being No.15 of the World) thus
speaks of Kent:--"The great Kent at length appeared in behalf of nature,
declared war against the taste in fashion, and laid the axe to the root
of artificial evergreens.Gardens were no longer filled with yews in the
shape of giants, Noah's ark cut in holly, St.George and the Dragon in
box, cypress lovers, laurustine bears, and all that race of root-born
monsters which flourished so long, and looked so tremendous round the
edges of every grass-plat.The great master above mentioned, truly the
disciple of nature, imitated her in the agreeable wildness and beautiful
irregularity of her plans, of which there are some noble examples still
remaining, that abundantly show the power of his creative genius."Dallaway, when treating on architecture, in his Anecdotes of the Arts,
says, "Kent designed the noble hall at Holkham, terminated by a vast
staircase, producing, in the whole, an imposing effect of grandeur not
to be equalled in England."He was a contemporary
therefore of Horace Walpole.He was buried in the vault at Chiswick,
belonging to his friend and patron, Lord Burlington.BRIDGMAN'S portrait was a private plate.It exhibited a kind-hearted,
hale old countenance.As he has the honour of being classed with Mr._Addison_, and with _Pope_, and _Kent_, as one of the champions who
established the picturesque scenery of landscape gardening, (which
_Bacon_, and _Spencer_, and _Milton_, as hath been observed, foresaw)
his portrait must surely be interesting.The engraved portrait which I
saw of him more than fifty years ago, made then a strong impression on
me.I
neither recollect its painter nor engraver; and it is so scarce, that
neither Mr.Smith, of Lisle Street, nor Mr.Evans, of Great Queen
Street, the intelligent collectors and illustrators of Granger, have
been able to obtain it.Perhaps it will be discovered that it was a
private plate, done at the expence of his generous and noble employer,
Lord Cobham.Of this once able and esteemed man, I can procure little
information.of Gardening says, "Lord Cobham seems to have
been occupied in re-modelling the grounds at _Stowe_, about the same
time that Pope was laying out his gardens at Twickenham.His lordship
began these improvements in 1714, _employing Bridgman_, whose plans and
views for altering old Stowe from the most rigid character of the
ancient style to a more open and irregular design, are still in
existence.Kent was employed a few years afterwards, first to paint the
hall, and afterwards in the double capacity of architect and
landscape-gardener; and the finest scenes there are his creation."The
finest views of Stowe gardens were drawn by Rigaud, and published by
_Sarah Bridgman_, in 1739.The fine and magnificent amphitheatre at the
Duke of Newcastle's, at Claremont, was designed, I believe, by Bridgman.When Queen Caroline added nearly three hundred acres from Hyde Park to
the gardens at Kensington, they were laid out by him.He also laid out
the gardens at Shardeloes, near Amersham.Walpole thus mentions
Bridgman, after alluding to the shears having been applied to the lovely
wildness of nature: "Improvements had gone on, till _London_ and _Wise_
had stocked our gardens with giants, animals, monsters, coats of arms,
and mottos, in yew, box and holly.Absurdity could go no farther, and
the tide turned._Bridgman_, the next fashionable designer of gardens,
was far more chaste; and whether from good sense, or that the nation had
been struck and reformed by the admirable paper in the Guardian, No.173, he banished verdant sculpture, and did not even revert to the
square precision of the foregoing age.He enlarged his plans, disdained
to make every division tally to its opposite; and though he still
adhered much to straight walks with high clipped hedges, they were only
his great lines, the rest he diversified by wilderness and with loose
groves of oak, though still within surrounding hedges.I have observed
in the garden at Gubbins, in Hertfordshire, many detached thoughts, that
strongly indicate the dawn of modern taste.As his reformation gained
footing, he ventured farther, and in the royal garden at Richmond, dared
to introduce cultivated fields, and even morsels of a forest appearance,
by the sides of those endless and tiresome walks that stretched out of
one into another without intermission.But this was not till other
innovators had broke loose too from rigid symmetry.But the capital
stroke, the leading step to all that has followed, was (_I believe the
first thought was Bridgman's_) the destruction of walls for boundaries,
and the invention of fosses,--an attempt then deemed so astonishing,
that the common people called them ha!to express their surprise
at finding a sudden and unperceived check to their walk.[83] One of the
first gardens planted in this simple though still formal style, was my
father's at Houghton.Eyre, an imitator of
Bridgman."PHILIP MILLER died at the age of eighty, and was emphatically styled by
foreigners _hortulanorum princeps_.Switzer bears testimony to his
"usual generosity, openness and freedom."Professor Martyn says, "he
accumulated no wealth from his respectable connection with the great, or
from the numerous editions of his works.He was of a disposition too
generous, and too careless of money, to become rich, and in all his
transactions observed more attention to integrity and honest fame, than
to any pecuniary advantages."Miller, by Maillet, prefixed to the "Dictionnaire des Jardiniers, de
Philipe Miller, traduit de l'Anglois," en 8 tom.Pulteney says of him, "He raised himself by his merit from a state
of obscurity to a degree of eminence, but rarely, if ever before,
equalled in the character of a gardener."Loudon (in that "varied
and voluminous mass of knowledge," his Encyclopaedia), thus
remarks:--"Miller, during his long career, had no considerable
competitor, until he approached the end of it, when several writers took
the advantage of his unwearied labours of near half a century, and fixed
themselves upon him, as various marine insects do upon a decaying
shell-fish.I except Hitt and Justice, who are both originals, as is
also Hill, after his fashion, but his gardening is not much founded in
experience."Miller married Ehret, whose fine taste
and botanical accuracy, and whose splendid drawings of plants, are the
finest ornaments of a botanical library.Miller fixed his residence adjoining that part of Chelsea
church-yard where he lies interred.Johnson gives a list of his writings, and of the different editions of
his celebrated Dictionary, which he terms "this great record of our
art."He farther does full justice to him, by associating his name, at
p.151, with that of "the immortal Swede, whose master mind
reduced the confusion and discord of botany to harmony."He calls Miller
"the perfect botanist and horticulturist."[84] The following spirited
tribute to Mr.Miller, appeared in the Gentleman's Magazine for June,
1828:--

   "_Chelsea, June 5._

"MR.URBAN,--In the first volume, page 250, of the second edition of
_Faulkner's History of Chelsea_, just published, which contains a very
copious fund of historical, antiquarian, and biographical information, I
find inserted the monument and epitaph of Philip Miller, who was so
justly styled 'the prince of horticulture' by contemporary botanists,
and whose well-earned fame will last as long as the sciences of botany
and horticulture shall endure.The epitaph of this distinguished man is
correctly given; but the historian appears not to have duly appreciated,
if he was even aware of, the circumstances which induced the Fellows of
the Linnaean and Horticultural Societies of London to erect this grateful
tribute of respectful esteem to him, who in his life-time, had done more
than any individual, ancient or modern, towards enlarging the boundaries
of the science of horticulture, and very extensively the far more
difficult one of botany likewise.These he accomplished in the numerous
editions of his unrivalled Dictionary, and in his elaborate
introductions to botanical knowledge."The reasons which induced the above-mentioned societies to erect the
monument in question, were, chiefly, because neither monument, nor tomb,
nor even any recording public notice whatever (the'monumentum aere
perennius' of his own immortal works excepted) had previously been
provided by any one."The relatives of Miller were very few; he had no family, save two sons,
one of whom died early, and the other, Charles Miller, at the age of 78,
who spent the greater part of his long life in India, and returned not
until after his father's funeral; and over his grave, in the old
church-yard of Chelsea, a stone and sculptured brass record his name and
age and parentage, together with that of his aged and more distinguished
sire.This stone, too, was placed by the above-mentioned public-spirited
societies, (unto both which the writer has the honour to belong) at the
same time as the monument, stated by Faulkner, to the never-dying fame
of the father."But it is even now scarcely known, that when those meritorious
testimonials of public gratitude were showered over the memory of Philip
Miller, who had laboured so long and so successfully in the sciences
which he loved, there was only one individual in existence, and that a
very aged person, who had seen and attended the funeral of Miller, and
who alone could point out the very spot where the 'Prince of
Horticulture' was inhumed.This venerable person's name was Goodyer; he
was the parish clerk of Chelsea church for half a century, and died as
such in 1818, at the great age of ninety-four."Nevertheless, though last, it should not be concealed that I myself had
actually stated and published, in the winter of 1794-5, the neglectful
and opprobrious fact of Miller's having no single grave-stone, much less
a monument, nor even one funeral line, to designate the spot where
rested in its 'narrow house' the mortal relics of so great a man; see my
Observations on the Genus Mesembryanthemum, p.311-14; and, as every
reader may not possess that publication, the following extract from it
is added:--

"'So much for Miller; he, alas!who pleased so well, or, rather let me
say, he who instructed and edified so much, and was even caressed by the
great while living, now lies, forgotten by his friends, inhumed amongst
the common undistinguished dead, in the bleak cold yard of Chelsea
church, the very theatre of his best actions, the physic gardens of the
Worshipful Company of Apothecaries, at Chelsea, not half a mile distant,
without a tomb!nay, destitute of a single line to mark
the spot where rests, retired from all its cares and useful toils, the
time-worn frame of the 'Prince of Horticulture!'How are those
discerning foreigners, who so meritoriously rendered the language of his
Dictionary into their own, to judge of this?by what measure are they to
estimate the fact?Miller was the author of several publications,
besides the very numerous editions of his Dictionary and Kalendar.'His works are many of them enumerated in the Encyclo.The most full list is in Weston's Catalogue.His portrait is
engraved in metz by Houston, from after Coates.It is an oval, with a
_solitaire_.A short account of his life and writings was published at
Edinburgh in 1779.The most general account of him is in Hutchinson's
Biog.BATTY LANGLEY was born at Twickenham, where he resided.He was the
author of,

1.New Principles of Gardening, or the laying out and planting
parterres, groves, wildernesses, labyrinths, avenues, parks, &c. cuts,
1728, 4to.The sure Method of Improving Estates by Trees, 8vo.One of his
chapters is "On the magnitude and prodigious Growth of Trees."Pomona, or the Fruit Gardener, _with plates_, fol.At the end
is a letter to Mr.Langley, on Cyder, from Hugh Stafford, Esq.Langley, with the name of
Carwirtham, as the engraver or print-seller, 1741.SIR WILLIAM WATSON, an eminent physician, who died in 1787, wrote

1.Account of the Remains of Tradescant's Garden.Account of the Bishop of London's Garden, at Fulham.besides many valuable papers in several volumes of
these Transactions.He had the pleasure of introducing _Kalm_, as well as _Pallas_, to most
of the curious gardens in the environs of London.On the first
establishment of the British Museum, he was most active in furnishing
its garden, with no fewer than six hundred plants.Pulteney observes) "became the resort of the most ingenious and
illustrious experimental philosophers that England could boast."Pulteney has closed a very liberal memoir of him, by inserting Dr.Garthshore's testimony to the humane feeling, the social politeness, and
benignity of Sir William.His portrait is painted by Abbot, and engraved
by Ryder, 1791.There is a full account of him in Chalmers.WILLIAM HANBURY, the intimate friend of Churchill, and of
Lloyd, in his singular "History of the Charitable Foundations at Church
Langton," (and which exhibits his own benevolent heart, and great love
for planting and gardening) mentions, at page 185, a full-length
portrait of himself, by Penny.Had there been any other portrait of him,
it is likely Mr.Nicholls would have mentioned it in his Leicestershire,
for that gentleman, as well as Joseph Cradock, Esq.(both of whom are
lately deceased), would have been most likely to have known, if any
other portrait of this zealous planter did exist; so would Dr.Thomas
Warton, who always spoke of Mr.Hanbury as a generous, disinterested,
and benevolent man.Earlom engraved, in 1775, a three-quarter
metzotinto, from the above portrait by Penny.Hanbury also published
"A Complete Body of Planting and Gardening;" 2 vols.Also, "An
Essay on Planting, and a Scheme to make it conducive to the Glory of
God, and the Advantage of Society;" Oxford, 8vo.And "The
Gardener's New Calendar;" 8vo.Hanbury first conceived, in 1751, the establishing at Church
Langton, for benevolent purposes, his immense plantations; having
procured (particularly from North America) "almost every sort of seed
that could be procured."He proposed that an annual sermon should be
preached, either in praise of church music, the duty of decorating
religious houses, charity in general, or the wonders of the creation;
and that a hospital should be founded for the relief of the really
distressed.Even when his
first twenty thousand trees had just been planted out, the cattle
belonging to the tenants of Mrs.Dorothy Pickering, and Frances Byrd,
(who a few years after died worth two hundred thousand pounds, and whose
village biography is curiously dispersed throughout the above history)
were _purposely_ turned amongst the young trees, and in a little time
destroyed them all."Neither was this all; I was served for a trespass
with twenty-seven different copies of writs in one day (by their
attorney, Valentine Price, of Leicester); to such a degree of rage and
fury were these old gentlewomen raised, at what one should have thought
every heart would have rejoiced, and kindly lent an assisting hand."Hanbury gives many instances of the "venomous rage and passion" of these
two old women.They had, says he, "the mortification to find themselves
totally despised.Not a gentleman or lady would go near them, two
neighbouring clergymen excepted, who were invited to dine with them upon
venison."They attempted making a tool of the sow-gelder's son, to
enable them to carry on their mean plans, and sent him word, that
nothing they could do for him in the parish should be wanting.His
answer was, "that favours granted from such people, on such terms, could
never prosper, and he desired the other to tell them, they were _two old
bitches_."--"This summer, (says Mr.Hanbury,) was murdered, in the most
barbarous manner, the best spaniel that perhaps ever entered the field,
and the best greyhound that ever run.With these I had been often
entertained in my morning walks.To deprive me of these pleasures,
afforded me in my morning recreations, I had discharges from Mrs.Byrd, for taking them with me in their manors.To
these I paid no regard, and as they never brought any action on that
account, it may be supposed they could find no just cause to ground one.Some method is to be contrived to deprive me of
my attendants; the spaniel therefore was the first object destined for
destruction.He was small, and of a beautiful black, and had been used
to the parlour; and being absent about an hour, came reeling home in the
agonies of death; and in about a quarter of an hour after, died in the
seemingly most excruciating tortures.Suspecting some villany, I ordered
him to be opened, but found everything perfect and entire; I then
directed him to be skinned, and coming to the loins, found the traces of
a table-fork, which was stuck into the kidneys, and which was the
occasion of his speedy and dreadful death.A few days after this, my
best greyhound was stuck in the loins, in the like barbarous manner,
which brought on the same kind of speedy and agonizing death; and this
was the catastrophe of these two noted dogs, which had been much talked
of, and were famous amongst sportsmen, as being most perfect in their
kind.Some time after this, their game-keeper, in company with his
nephew, _buried two dogs alive_; they were the property of Mr.Wade, a
substantial grazier, who had grounds contiguous to a place of cover,
called Langton Caudle, where was often game; and where the unfortunate
two dogs, straying from their master, had been used to hunt.The
game-keeper and his nephew being shooting in this place, the dogs, upon
the report of the gun, made towards them.Their shooting them or hanging
them would have been merciful, but they buried them alive; and what
words can express the abhorrence of such barbarity to such innocent
creatures following the dictates of nature?To prevent a possibility of
their scratching a way out, they covered them down with black thorns;
over these they laid a sufficient quantity of earth and one large stone,
which the rammed down with their heels.Day after day the dogs were
heard in this place, with the howling, barking noise of dogs that were
lost.Some people resorted to find them out, and wondered it was to no
purpose, for nobody could suspect the dogs were under ground; and thus
after calling and whistling them, and seeking them for some time,
returned, amazed that lost dogs should continue so long in that place;
but a sight of none could ever be had.The noise was fancied to come
sometimes from one quarter, sometimes from another; and when they came
near the place they were in, they ceased howling, expecting their
deliverance was at hand.I myself heard them _ten days_ after they had
been buried; and seeing some people at a distance, enquired what dogs
they were._They are some dogs that are lost, Sir_, said they; _they
have been lost some time_.I concluded only some poachers had been there
early in the morning, and by a precipitate flight had left their dogs
behind them.In short, the howling and barking of these dogs was heard
for near three weeks, when it ceased.Wade's dogs were missing, but
he could not suspect those to be his; and the noise ceasing, the
thoughts, wonder, and talking about them, soon also ceased.Some time
after, a person being amongst the bushes where the howling was heard,
discovered some disturbed earth, and the print of men's heels ramming it
down again very close; and seeing Mr.Wade's servant, told him, he
thought something had been buried there._Then_, said the man, _it is
our dogs, and they have been buried alive: I will go and fetch a spade,
and will find them, if I dig all Caudle over_.He soon brought a spade,
and upon removing the top earth, came to the blackthorns, and then to
the dogs, the biggest of which had eat the loins and greatest share of
the hind parts of the little one."Hanbury states the deaths of
these two sisters in the course of a few months after.The sums they
accumulated by their penurious way of living, were immense.They
bequeathed legacies by will to almost every body that were no kin to
them except their assiduous attorney, Valentine Price, to whom they left
nothing."But what is strange and wonderful, though their charities in
their life-time at Langton were a sixpenny loaf a week only, which was
divided into as many parts as there were petitioners, and distributed by
eleven of the clock on a Sunday, unless they left the town the day
before, which was often the case, and when the poor were sure to fail of
their bounty; these gentlewomen, at the death of the last, bequeathed by
will upwards of twelve thousand pounds to the different hospitals and
religious institutions in the kingdom.A blaze of goodness issued from
them at last, and thus ended these two poor, unhappy, uncharitable,
charitable old gentlewomen."Marshall calls him, "the indefatigable Hanbury, whose immense
labours are in a manner lost to the public."Hanbury did, in describing the beauty of trees and shrubs: this is
visible in the extracts which Mr.Marshall has made in his "Planting and
Rural Ornament."WILLIAM SHENSTONE, Esq., justly celebrated for his pure and classic
taste in landscape gardening.His tender and pathetic feelings shine
throughout most of his works; and the sweetness and simplicity of his
temper and manners, endeared him to the neighbourhood and to his
acquaintance.Johnson says, his life was unstained by any crime.He
farther says of him, "He began from this time to entangle his walks, and
to wind his waters; which he did with such judgment and such fancy, as
made his little domain the envy of the great and the admiration of the
skilful.His house was mean, and he did not improve it; his care was of
his grounds.When he came home from his walks, he might find his floor
flooded by a shower through the broken roof; but could spare no money
for its reparation.In time his expences brought clamours about him,
that overpowered the lamb's bleat and the linnet's song; and his groves
were haunted by beings very different from fawns and fairies.He spent
his estate in adorning it, and his death was probably hastened by his
anxieties.He was a lamp that spent its oil in blazing.It is said, that
if he had lived a little longer he would have been assisted by a
pension: such bounty could not have been ever more properly bestowed;
but that it was ever asked is not certain; it is too certain that it
never was enjoyed."His intimate friend, Robert Dodsley, thus speaks of him: "Tenderness,
indeed, in every sense of the word, was his peculiar characteristic; his
friends, his domestics, his poor neighbours, all daily experienced his
benevolent turn of mind.He was no economist; the generosity of his
temper prevented him from paying a proper regard to the use of money: he
exceeded, therefore, the bounds of his paternal fortune, which before he
died was considerably incumbered.But when one recollects the perfect
paradise he had raised around him, the hospitality with which he lived,
his great indulgence to his servants, his charities to the indigent, and
all done with an estate not more than three hundred pounds a year, one
should rather be led to wonder that he left any thing behind him, than
to blame his want of economy.He left, however, more than sufficient to
pay all his debts; and, by his will, appropriated his whole estate for
that purpose."His portrait is prefixed to his works, published in 3 vols.His second volume contains his "Unconnected Thoughts on Landscape
Gardening;" and the description of the celebrated _Leasowes_, in that
volume, was written by ("the modest, sensible, and humane") Robert
Dodsley.His Epistolary Correspondence appeared in 2 vols.The
title pages of the above first three volumes are attractive from their
vignette, or rural embellishments.A portrait of Shenstone was taken in
1758, by Ross, which Hall engraved for Dodsley, in 1780; and this
picture by Ross was in the possession of the late most worthy Dr.Graves, of Claverton, who died a few years ago, at the advanced age of
ninety.Bell's edition of the Poets has a neat copy of this portrait.Graves wrote "Recollections of the late William Shenstone."He also
dedicated an urn to him, and inscribed these lines thereon:--

   Stranger!if woods and lawns like these,
   If rural scenes thy fancy please,
   Ah!stop awhile, and pensive view
   Poor Shenstone's urn: who oft, like you,
   These woods and lawns well-pleased has rov'd,
   And oft these rural scenes approv'd.Like him, be thou fair virtue's friend,
   And health and peace thy steps attend.Shenstone died in 1763, and is buried in Hales Owen church yard.An
urn is placed in the church to his memory, thus inscribed:--

   Whoe'er thou art, with reverence tread
   These sacred mansions of the dead.--
   Not that the monumental bust
   Or sumptuous tomb HERE guards the dust
   Of rich or great: (Let wealth, rank, birth,
   Sleep undistinguish'd in the earth;)
   This simple urn records a name
   That shines with more exalted fame.if genius, taste refined,
   A native elegance of mind;
   If virtue, science, manly sense;
   If wit, that never gave offence;
   The clearest head, the tenderest heart,
   In thy esteem e'er claim'd a part;
   Ah!smite thy breast, and drop a tear,
   For, know, THY Shenstone's dust lies here.Mason thus speaks of Shenstone:

                          ----"Nor thou
   Shalt pass without thy meed, thou son of peace,
   Who knew'st perchance to harmonize thy shades
   Still softer than thy song; yet was that song
   Nor rude nor unharmonious, when attuned
   To pastoral plaint, or tales of slighted love."Whateley pays his memory the following tribute, previous to his
masterly survey of his far-famed and enchanting seat: "An allusion to
the ideas of pastoral poetry evidently enters into the design of the
Leasowes, where they appear so lovely as to endear the memory of their
author, and justify the reputation of Mr.Shenstone, who inhabited, made
and directed that celebrated place.It is a perfect picture of his mind,
simple, elegant, and amiable, and will always suggest a doubt whether
the spot inspired his verses, or whether, in the scenes which he formed,
he only realized the pastoral images which abound in his songs."[85]
George Mason, in many pages, pays high compliments to Shenstone's taste:
"Paine's Hill has every mark of creative genius, and Hagley of
correctest fancy; but the most intimate _alliance with nature_ was
formed by Shenstone."Marshall, in his "Planting and Rural
Ornament," has some critical remarks on the _Leasowes_, the expences in
perfecting which threw Shenstone "on the rack of poverty, and probably
hastened the dissolution of an amiable and valuable man."He says that
_Enville_ was originally designed by Shenstone, and that the cascade
and chapel were spoken of, with confidence, as his.[86]


LORD KAMES.His portrait is prefixed to the memoirs of him, by Lord
Woodhouselee, in 2 vols.There is an edition of the same
work, in 3 vols.1814, with the same portrait, which is engraved
from a drawing by D. Martin.His "Gentleman Farmer" spread his fame
through Scotland.Smellie,
in his Literary Lives of Gregory, Home, Hume, Adam Smith, and Lord
Kames, after giving many interesting particulars of the latter, and
after noticing his benevolence to the poor, during the whole course of
his long life, proceeds:--"One great feature in the character of Lord
Kames, besides his literary talents, and his public spirit, was a
remarkable innocency of mind.He not only never indulged in detraction,
but when any species of scandal was exhibited in his company, he either
remained silent, or endeavoured to give a turn to the conversation.As
natural consequences of this amiable disposition, he never meddled with
politics, even when politics ran to indecent lengths in this country;
and what is still more remarkable, he never wrote a sentence,
notwithstanding his numerous publications, without a direct and a
manifest intention to benefit his fellow creatures.In his temper he was
naturally warm, though kindly and affectionate.In the friendships he
formed, he was ardent, zealous and sincere.So far from being inclined
to irreligion, as some ignorant bigots insinuated, few men possessed a
more devout habit of thought.A constant sense of Deity, and a
veneration for Providence, dwelt upon his mind.From this source arose
that propensity, which appears in all his writings, of investigating
final causes, and tracing the wisdom of the Supreme Author of Nature."He had the honour to be highly esteemed by the celebrated Mrs.1790, which gives an engraved portrait of
him, being a copy of the above, thus speaks: "He was one of the very
first who to great legal knowledge, added a considerable share of polite
literature.He arrived at the highest rank to which a lawyer could
attain in his own country; and he has left to the world such literary
productions, as will authorize his friends to place him, if not in the
highest, yet much above the lowest, class of elegant and polite writers.He died in 1783, leaving to the world a proof, that an attention to the
abstrusest branches of learning, is not incompatible with the more
pleasing pursuits of taste and polite literature."His pure taste in landscape scenery, is acknowledged by Mr.81 of the Encyclopaedia of Gardening._Blair Drummond_ will
long be celebrated as having been his residence, and he there displayed
his superior taste in planting and improving.In his "Elements of Criticism," (a truly original work) there is a
distinct chapter on architecture and gardening.He therein thus
addresses the reader:--"These cursory observations upon gardening, shall
be closed with some reflections that must touch every reader.Rough
uncultivated ground, dismal to the eye, inspires peevishness and
discontent: may not this be one cause of the harsh manners of savages?A
field richly ornamented, containing beautiful objects of various kinds,
displays in full lustre the goodness of the Deity, and the ample
provision he has made for our happiness.Ought not the spectator to be
filled with gratitude to his Maker, and with benevolence to his fellow
creatures?Other fine arts may be perverted to excite irregular and even
vicious emotions; but gardening, which inspires the purest and most
refined pleasures, cannot fail to promote every good affection.The
gaiety and harmony of mind it produceth, inclineth the spectator to
communicate his satisfaction to others, and to make them happy as he is
himself, and tends naturally to establish in him a habit of humanity and
benevolence."JOHN ABERCROMBIE'S manly and expressive countenance is best given in the
portrait prefixed to an edition in 2 vols.1, 1783,
by Fielding and Debrett.He is also drawn at full-length at his age of
seventy-two, in the sixteenth edition, printed in 1800, with a pleasing
view of a garden in the back-ground, neatly engraved.This honest,
unassuming man, persevered "through a long life of scarcely interrupted
health," in the ardent pursuit of his favourite science.The tenor of
his life exemplified how much a garden calms the mind, and tranquilly
sets at rest its turbulent passions.of
Gardening, after giving some interesting points of his history, thus
concludes: "In the spring of 1806, being in his eightieth year, he met
with a severe fall, by which he broke the upper part of his thigh bone.This accident, which happened to him on the 15th of April, terminated in
his death.After lying in a very weak exhausted state, without much
pain, he expired in the night, between April and May, as St.He was lamented by all who knew him, as cheerful,
harmless, and upright."One of his biographers thus relates of him:
"Abercrombie from a fall down stairs in the dark, died at the age of
eighty, and was buried at St.He was present at the famous
battle of Preston Pans, which was fought close to his father's garden
walls.For the last twenty years of his life he lived chiefly on tea,
using it three times a-day: his pipe was his first companion in the
morning, and last at night.[87] He never remembered to have taken a dose
of physic in his life, prior to his last fatal accident, nor of having a
day's illness but once."A list of his works appears in Watts's Bibl.Brit., and a most full one in Johnson's History of English Gardening,
who, with many collected particulars of Abercrombie, relates the great
and continually increasing sale of some of his works.LAUNCELOT BROWNE, Esq.His portrait was painted by Dance, and engraved by Sherwin.Under this
portrait are engraved the following lines, from the pen of Mr.Mason,
which are also inscribed on the tomb of Mr.Browne, in the church of
Fen-Staunton, Huntingdonshire:

   _Ye sons of elegance, who truly taste
     The simple charms which genuine art supplies,
   Come from the sylvan scenes his genius drew,
     And offer here your tributary sighs.But know, that more than genius slumbers here,
     Virtues were his that art's best powers transcend,
   Come, ye superior train!who these revere,
     And weep the christian, husband, father, friend._

Mr.Browne this elegant compliment: "Did living
artists come within my plan, I should be glad to do justice to Mr.Browne; but he may be a gainer by being reserved for some abler pen."This celebrated landscape gardener died suddenly, in Hertford Street,
May Fair, on the 6th of February, 1783, on his return from a visit to
his old friend the Earl of Coventry.Browne, though bred a common
gardener at Stowe, possessed a cultivated mind, and his society was much
courted.called him "a most agreeable, unassuming
man."He was consulted by most of the
nobility and gentry, and the places he laid out or altered, were, as Mr.Repton has given a list of
his principal works.It has been the fate of this eminent master of landscape embellishment,
to be severely censured by some, and lavishly praised by others.The
late keen and consummate observer of landscape scenery, Sir Uvedale
Price, harshly condemns the too frequent cold monotony and tameness of
many of Mr.Browne's creations, and his never transfusing into his works
any thing of the taste and spirit which prevail in the poet Mason's
precepts and descriptions; and in one of his acute, yet pleasant pages,
he alludes to his having but _one_ and the same plan of operation;
_Sangrado_-like, treating all disorders in the same manner.Perhaps the
too general smoothness and tameness of Mr.Browne's pleasure-grounds ill
accorded with Sir Uvedale's enthusiasm for the more sublime views of
forest scenery, rapid and stony torrents and cascades, wild entangled
dingles, and craggy breaks; or with the high and sublime notions he had
imbibed from the rich scenery of nature so often contemplated by him in
the landscapes of _Claude_, or in those of _Rubens_, _Gaspar Poussin_,
_Salvator Rosa_, or of _Titian_, "the greatest of all landscape
painters."Perhaps Sir Uvedale preferred "unwedgeable and gnarled oaks,"
to "the tameness of the poor pinioned trees of a gentleman's plantation,
drawn up straight," or the wooded banks of a river, to the "bare shaven
border of a canal."[88]

Daines Barrington happily said, "Kent has been succeeded by Browne, who
hath undoubtedly great merit in laying out pleasure-grounds; but I
conceive that in some of his plans, I see rather traces of the
kitchen-gardener of old Stowe, than of Poussin or Claude Lorraine: I
could wish, therefore, that Gainsborough gave the design, and that
Browne executed it.Loudon observes, "that Browne must have
possessed considerable talents, the extent of his reputation abundantly
proves; but that he was imbued with much of that taste for picturesque
beauty, which distinguished the works of Kent, Hamilton, and Shenstone,
we think will hardly be asserted by any one who has observed attentively
such places as are known to be his creations."George Mason candidly
asks, "why Browne should be charged with all the defects of those that
have called themselves his followers, I have seen no good reason
alleged, nor can I suppose it possible to produce one."Many of his
imitators exhibited so little talent in their creations, that Mr.Browne's name considerably suffered in the estimation of many.Gilpin speaks of Browne's improvements at Blenheim in high terms.Marshall in his Survey of Stowe and Fisherwick, in vol.i. of his
"Planting and Rural Ornament," and at p.384, pays a fair tribute to
him.Much general information respecting him may be seen in Mr.Loudon's
chapter "Of the rise, progress, and present state of gardening in the
British Isles."The candour and rich conciseness of this review,
embraces the whole _magic of the art_, as respects landscape
gardening.[90]


FRANCIS ZAVIER VISPRE wrote "A Dissertation on the Growth of Wine in
England", Bath, 8vo.Vispre died poor, between thirty and
forty years ago, in St.He excelled in painting portraits
in crayons: Sir Joshua much esteemed him.He was a most inoffensive man,
of the mildest manners, and of the purest integrity.I have seen his
portrait in crayons, in an oval, finely finished by himself, but know
not now where that is.On his mode of training the vine _very near the
ground_, see p.WILLIAM MASON, precentor and canon of York, died in 1797.His friend,
Sir Joshua Reynolds, painted an impressive portrait of him, which is
engraved by Doughty.A masterly copy of this fine portrait is in Mr.A copy is also prefixed to the edition
of his works, in 4 vols.His
portrait was also taken by Vaslet, and engraved by Carter, 1771.It is a
large metz etching.He translated Du Fresnoy's Art of Painting, to which
Sir Joshua added some notes.Mason has prefixed an Epistle to Sir
Joshua, which thus concludes:

   And oh!if ought thy poet can pretend
   Beyond his favourite wish, to _call thee friend_:
   Be it that here his tuneful toil has dress'd
   The muse of _Fresnoy_ in a modern vest;
   And, with what skill his fancy could bestow,
   Taught the close folds to take an easier flow;
   Be it that here, thy partial smile approv'd
   The pains he lavish'd on the art he lov'd.Mason's attachment to painting was an early one, is conspicuous in
many of his writings, and in his English Garden, is visible throughout:

                                ----feel ye there
   What _Reynolds_ felt, when first the Vatican
   Unbarr'd her gates, and to his raptur'd eye
   Gave all the god-like energy that flow'd
   From _Michael's_ pencil; feel what _Garrick_ felt,
   When first he breath'd the soul of _Shakspeare's_ page.Sir Joshua, in his will, bequeaths his then supposed portrait of Milton
to Mr.Gray thus observes of Mason, when at Cambridge:--"So ignorant of the
world and its ways, that this does not hurt him in one's opinion; so
sincere and so undisguised, that no mind with a spark of generosity
would ever think of hurting him, he lies so open to injury; but so
indolent, that if he cannot overcome this habit, all his good qualities
will signify nothing at all."Mason, in 1754, found a patron in the Earl of Holderness, who
presented him with the living of _Aston_, in Yorkshire.This sequestred
village was favourable to his love of poetry and picturesque scenery;
which displayed itself at large in his English Garden, and was the
foundation of his lasting friendship with Mr.Gilpin, who to testify his
esteem, dedicated to him his _Observations on the Wye_.Shore, of Norton Hall, (the friend of Priestley), thus
mentions _Aston_:--"That truly conscientious, and truly learned and
excellent man, Mr.Lindsey, spent a whole week in this neighbourhood.He
was during that time the guest of his friend Mr.Mason, who was residing
on his rectory at _Aston_, the biographer of Gray, and one whose taste,
gave beauty, and poetry, celebrity, to that cheerful village."Gray, terminated only with the life of the latter.Mason was visited at Aston, for the last time, by him.Mason was from Pembroke-hall, in May, 1771, and on the
31st of the next month, and at that place, this sublime genius paid the
debt of nature.Mason, and
inscribed on the monument in Westminster Abbey:

   No more the Grecian muse unrivall'd reigns;
     To Britain let the nations homage pay:
   She felt a Homer's fire in Milton's strains,
     A Pindar's rapture in the lyre of Gray.He farther evinced his attachment to this elegant scholar by publishing
his poems and letters, to which he prefixed memoirs of him.He commences
the third book of his English Garden with an invocation to his memory,
and records, in lofty language, his eye glistening and his accents
glowing, when viewing the charms of all-majestic Nature--the heights of
Skiddaw and the purple crags of Borrowdale.And on a rustic alcove, in
the garden at Aston, which he dedicated to Mr.Gray, he inscribed this
stanza from the celebrated elegy:

   _Here scatter'd oft, the loveliest of the year,
     By hands unseen, are showers of violets found;
   The red-breast loves to build and warble here,
     And little footsteps lightly print the ground._

Mr.Mason married in 1765 a most amiable woman; she fell at length into
a rapid consumption, and at Bristol hot-wells she died.Mason while at that place, is full of eloquence; upon which the
latter observes, "I opened it almost at the precise moment when it would
be necessarily most affecting.His epitaph on the monument he erected on
this lady, in the Bristol cathedral, breathes such tender feeling and
chaste simplicity, that it can need no apology for being noticed here:

   Take, holy earth!all that my soul holds dear;
     Take that best gift which heav'n so lately gave:
   To Bristol's fount I bore with trembling care
     Her faded form: she bow'd to taste the wave
   And died.Does youth, does beauty, read the line?breathe a strain divine:
     E'en from the grave thou shalt have power to charm.Bid them be chaste, be innocent, like thee;
     Bid them in duty's sphere as meekly move;
   And if so fair, from vanity as free;
     As firm in friendship, and as fond in love.Tell them, though 'tis an awful thing to die,
     ('Twas e'en to thee) yet the dread path once trod,
   Heav'n lifts its everlasting portals high,
     And bids "the pure in heart behold their God."Mason's death, he began his English
Garden, and invokes the genius both of poetry and painting

                         ----that at my birth
   Auspicious smil'd, and o'er my cradle dropp'd
   Those magic seeds of Fancy, which produce
   A Poet's feeling, and a Painter's eye.----with lenient smiles to deign to cheer,
   At this sad hour, my desolated soul.For deem not ye that I resume the lyre
   To court the world's applause; my years mature
   Have learn'd to slight the toy.No, 'tis to soothe
   That agony of heart, which they alone,
   Who best have lov'd, who best have been belov'd,
   Can feel, or pity: sympathy severe!Which she too felt, when on her pallid lip
   The last farewell hung trembling, and bespoke
   A wish to linger here, and bless the arms
   She left for heav'n.--She died, and heav'n is her's!Be mine, the pensive solitary balm
   That recollection yields.While memory holds her seat, thine image still
   Shall reign, shall triumph there; and when, as now,
   Imagination forms a nymph divine,
   To lead the fluent strain, thy modest blush,
   Thy mild demeanour, thy unpractis'd smile,
   Shall grace that nymph, and sweet Simplicity
   Be dress'd (ah, meek Maria!)Thomas Warton thus speaks of the above poem, when reviewing Tusser's
Husbandry:--"Such were the rude beginnings in the English language of
didactic poetry, which, on a kindred subject, the present age has seen
brought to perfection, by the happy combination of judicious precepts,
with the most elegant ornaments of language and imagery, in Mr.His Elfrida and Caractacus, are admired for boldness of
conception and sublime description.Elfrida was set to Music by Arne,
and again by Giardini.Mason's
success with both these dramatic poems was beyond his most sanguine
expectation.Mason; these lines are its concluding
part:

   Weave the bright wreath, to worth departed just,
   And hang unfading chaplets on his bust;
   While pale Elfrida, bending o'er his bier,
   Breathes the soft sigh and sheds the graceful tear;
   And stern Caractacus, with brow depress'd
   Clasps the cold marble to his mailed breast.In lucid troops shall choral virgins throng,
   With voice alternate chant their poet's song.in golden characters record
   Each firm, immutable, immortal word!"Those last two lines from the final chorus of Elfrida, (says Miss
Seward), admirably close this tribute to the memory of him who stands
second to Gray, as a lyric poet; whose English Garden is one of the
happiest efforts of didactic verse, containing the purest elements of
horticultural taste, dignified by freedom and virtue, rendered
interesting by episode, and given in those energetic and undulating
measures which render blank verse excellent; whose unowned satires, yet
certainly his, the heroic epistle to Sir William Chambers, and its
postscript, are at once original in their style, harmonious in their
numbers, and pointed in their ridicule; whose tragedies are the only
pathetic tragedies which have been written in our language upon the
severe Greek model.The Samson Agonistes bears marks of a stronger, but
also of an heavier hand, and is unquestionably less touching than the
sweet Elfrida, and the sublime Caractacus."Mason, in 1756 published four Odes."It would be difficult to say,
(says the biographer of the annual Necrology of 1797,) which is most to
be admired, the vividness of the conception, or the spirit of liberty,
and the ardent love of independance throughout.The address to Milton in
his Ode to Memory, and to Andrew Marvel, in that to Independance, cannot
be too much admired.At the period when the Middlesex election was so
much agitated, he united with those independant freeholders, who, by
their declarations and petitions, throughout the nation, opposed
corruption, and claimed a reform in parliament; and when the county of
York assembled in 1779, he was of the committee, and had a great share
in drawing up their spirited resolutions.The animated vindication of
the conduct of the freeholders, and other papers, though printed
anonimously in the newspapers, and so printed in Mr.Wyvill's collection
of political tracts, in 3 vols.This conduct rendered him obnoxious to the court party.He
was at this time one of the king's chaplains, but when it became his
turn to preach before the royal family, the queen appointed another
person to supply his place.It has been observed, that his sentiments in
a later period of his life, took a colour less favourable to liberty.Whether alarmed at the march of the French revolution, or from the
timidity of age, we know not.His friend Horace Walpole, charges him
with flat apostacy:" The _Heroic Epistle_ to Sir W. Chambers, and the
_Heroic Postscript_, are now positively said to have been written by Mr.Thomas Warton observed, "they may have been written by
Walpole, and buckramed by Mason."The late Sir U. Price, in the generous and patriotic conclusion of his
letter to Mr.Repton, pays a delicate compliment to the genius of Mr.Mason in whatever concerns rural scenery; and his respect for Mr.Mason,
and his high opinion of his talents, is farther shewn in pp.295 and
371 of his first volume, and in p.Mason to have been the author of the Heroic Epistle, and
after paying a high compliment to his general poetry, thus concludes his
generous tribute:

   Whence is that groan?no more Britannia sleeps,
   But o'er her lov'd Musaeus bends and weeps.Lo, every Grecian, every British muse
   Scatter the recent flowers and gracious dews
   Where MASON lies!And in his breast each soft affection dwelt,
   That love and friendship know; each sister art,
   With all that colours, and that sounds impart,
   All that the sylvan theatre can grace,
   All in the soul of MASON found their place!Low sinks the laurell'd head: in Mona's land
   I see them pass, 'tis Mador's drooping band,
   To harps of woe, in holiest obsequies,
   In yonder grave, they chant, our Druid lies!In the life of this justly celebrated physician, by Miss
Seward, she informs us, that in the year 1770, he sat to Mr.Wright of
Derby; and that it was "a contemplative portrait, of the most perfect
resemblance."He was then in
his thirty-eighth year.Thornton, in his superb work on botany, has
given a fine portrait of Dr.Darwin, at a more advanced period of his
life.It breathes intelligence in every feature, and is a masterly
likeness.Archdeacon Clive preserved a highly-finished
miniature portrait of him, which was ordered by Dr.Darwin for the
express purpose of being presented to this worthy clergyman, whom he so
much esteemed.Zoonomia, or the Laws of Organic Life.Phytologia, or the Philosophy of Agriculture and Gardening, 4to."A vast field of treasured observation and scientific literature."Lord Byron, and others, have been severe on this poem.The lines,
however, on the soldier's wife and infants, after watching the battle of
Minden--those animated ones to Mr.Howard--or when the mother, during
the plague in London, commits her children to the grave,

   _When o'er the friendless bier no rites were read,
   No dirge slow chanted, and no pall outspread;_

these make one gladly acknowledge, that pathetic powers were the gift of
Darwin's muse.The sublimity of the following address to our _first_
daring aeronaut, merits insertion:

   --Rise, great Mongolfier!urge thy venturous flight
   High o'er the moon's pale, ice-reflected light;
   High o'er the pearly star, whose beamy horn
   Hangs in the east, gay harbinger of morn;
   Leave the red eye of Mars on rapid wing,
   Jove's silver guards, and Saturn's dusky ring;
   Leave the fair beams, which issuing from afar
   Play with new lustres round the Georgian star;
   Shun with strong oars the sun's attractive throne,
   The burning Zodiac, and the milky Zone:
   Where headlong comets with increasing force
   Through other systems bend their burning course!For thee Cassiope her chair withdraws,
   For thee the Bear retracts his shaggy paws;
   High o'er the north thy golden orb shall roll,
   And blaze eternal round the wondering pole.[92]

Miss Seward, after stating that professional generosity distinguished
Dr.Darwin's medical practice at Lichfield, farther says, that
"diligently also did he attend to the health of the poor in that city,
and afterwards at Derby, and supplied their necessities by food, and all
sorts of charitable assistance.In each of those towns, _his_ was the
cheerful board of almost open-housed hospitality, without extravagance
or pride; deeming ever the first unjust, the latter unmanly.Generosity,
wit and science, were his household gods."[93] She again states that
when he removed from Lichfield to Derby, "his renown, as a physician,
still increased as time rolled on, and his mortal life declined from its
noon.Patients resorted to him more and more, from every part of the
kingdom, and often from the continent.All ranks, all orders of society,
all religions, leaned upon his power to ameliorate disease, and to
prolong existence.The rigid and sternly pious, who had attempted to
renounce his aid, from a superstition that no blessing would attend the
prescriptions of a sceptic, sacrificed, after a time, their
superstitious scruples to their involuntary consciousness of his mighty
skill."Mathias, though he severely criticizes some of Dr.Darwin's
works, yet he justly calls him "this very ingenious man, and most
excellent physician, for such he undoubtedly was."[Illustration]

From scattered passages in Miss Seward's Life of him, one can easily
trace the delight he took (notwithstanding his immense professional
engagements,) in the scenery of nature and gardens;--witness his
frequent admiration of the tangled glen and luxuriant landscape at
_Belmont_, its sombre and pathless woods, impressing us with a sense of
solemn seclusion, like the solitudes of _Tinian_, or _Juan Fernandes_,
with its "silent and unsullied stream," which the admirable lines he
addresses to the youthful owner of that spot so purely and temperately
allude to:--

   O, friend to peace and virtue, ever flows
   For thee my silent and unsullied stream,
   Pure and untainted as thy blameless life!Let no gay converse lead thy steps astray,
   To mix my chaste wave with immodest wine,
   Nor with the poisonous cup, which Chemia's hand
   Deals (fell enchantress!)So shall young Health thy daily walks attend,
   Weave for thy hoary brow the vernal flower
   Of cheerfulness, and with his nervous arm
   Arrest th' inexorable scythe of Time.So early, and indeed throughout his whole life, did Dr.Darwin enforce
the happy consequences of temperance and sobriety; from his conviction
of the pernicious effects of all kinds of intemperance on the youthful
constitution.He had an absolute horror of spirits of all sorts, however
diluted.Pure water was, throughout the greater part of his temperate
life, his favourite beverage.He has been severely censured (no doubt
very justly so), for some of his religious prejudices.Old Walter Mapes,
the jovial canon of Salisbury, precentor of Lincoln, and arch-deacon of
Oxford, in the eleventh century, considered _water_ as fit only for
_heretics_.One may again trace his fondness for the rich scenery of nature, when he
in 1777 purchased a wild umbrageous valley near Lichfield, with its
mossy fountain of the purest water.The
botanic skill displayed by him on this spot, did not escape the
searching eye of Mr.of
Gardening, he pays a deserved compliment to him.[94] Miss Seward wrote
some lines on this favoured valley, and these are part of them:

   O!may no ruder step these bowers profane,
   No midnight wassailers deface the plain;
   And when the tempests of the wintry day
   Blow golden autumn's varied leaves away,
   Winds of the north, restrain your icy gales,
   Nor chill the bosom of these hallow'd vales.His attachment to gardens, induced him to honour the memory of Mr.Mason, by lines once intended for his monument; and he was suggesting
improvements at the priory at Derby (and which he had just described the
last morning of his life in a sprightly letter to a friend), when the
fatal signal was given, and a few hours after, on the 18th of April,
1802, and in his sixty-ninth year, he sunk into his chair and expired."Thus in one hour (says his affectionate biographer) was extinguished
that vital light, which the preceding hour had shone in flattering
brightness, promising duration; (such is often _the cunning flattery of
nature_), that light, which through half a century, had diffused its
radiance and its warmth so widely; that light in which penury had been
cheered, in which science had expanded; to whose orb poetry had brought
all her images; before whose influence disease had continually
retreated, and death so often "turned aside his levelled dart!Darwin, as to his religious principles or prejudices, displayed
great errors of judgment in his _Zoonomia_, there can be no doubt.An
eminent champion of Christianity, truly observed, that Dr.Darwin "was
acquainted with more links in the chain of _second_ causes, than had
probably been known to any individual, who went before him; but that he
dwelt so much, and so _exclusively_ on second causes, that he too
generally seems to have forgotten that there is a first."For these
errors he must long since have been called to his account, before one
who can appreciate those errors better than we can.Though the _Accusing
Spirit_ must have blushed when he gave them in, yet, let us hope, that
the _Recording Angel_, out of mercy to his humane heart, and his many
good and valuable qualities, may have blotted them out for ever.WILLIAM GILPIN, who, as Mr.Dallaway, in his Observations on the
Arts, observes, "possesses unquestionably the happy faculty to paint
with words;" and who farther highly compliments him in his supplementary
chapter on Modern Gardening, annexed to his enriched edition of Mr.The Topographer says he "describes with the
language of a master, the artless scenes of uncultivated nature."Walpole in his postscript to his Catalogue of Engravers, after
premising, that it might, perhaps, be worth while "to melt down this
volume and new cast it," pays this tribute to him: "Were I of authority
sufficient to name my successor, or could prevail on him to condescend
to accept an office which he could execute with more taste and ability;
from whose hands could the public receive so much information and
pleasure as from the author of the _Essay on Prints_, and from the
_Tours_, &c.?And when was the public ever instructed by the pen and
pencil at once, with equal excellence in the style of both, but by Mr.Gilpin written nothing more than his "Lectures on the
Catechism," that alone would have conferred on him the name of a
meritorious writer.His allusion to Plato, his reflections on the Last
Judgment, his animated address to youth, and his conclusion of his
sixteenth lecture, must strike deep into the heart of every reader.His
"Sermons preached to a Country Congregation," prove him a pious,
charitable, and valuable man.[96]

The glowing imagery of his style, when viewing the beautiful scenery in
many parts of England, and some of the vast and magnificent ones of
Scotland, is fraught with many fervid charms.Mathias, in the remonstrance he so justly makes as to the
jargonic conceit of some of his language.Gilpin's first work on
picturesque beauty, was his Observations on the River Wye, made in the
year 1770.He afterwards published:

Forest Scenery--Picturesque Beauties of the Highlands--Mountains of
Cumberland and Westmoreland--Western parts of England--Cambridge,
Norfolk, Suffolk and Essex--Hampshire, Sussex and Kent.Three Essays, on
Picturesque Beauty, on Picturesque Travel, and on Sketching Landscape,
to which is added, a poem on Landscape Painting.A full account of his
numerous works may be seen in Watts's Bibl.A complete list of
them is also given by Mr.i. of his Illustrations, with
a brief memoir.Johnson also gives a list of such of his works as
relate to picturesque scenery, with their titles at large.His portrait
was painted by Walton, and engraved in metz by Clint.JAMES ANDERSON published the following works; and I have given the price
of such of them as appeared in the late Mr.Harding's Agricultural
Catalogue:--

     1.The Bee, or Literary Intelligencer, 18 vols.Recreations in Agriculture, Natural History, Arts and
     Miscellaneous Literature, 6 vols._Lond._ 3_l._ 10s.Essays relating to Agriculture and Rural Affairs, 3 vols.Practical Treatise on draining Bogs, 8vo.Practical Treatise on Peat Moss, 8vo.On Lime as a Cement and Manure, 8vo.An Account of the different kinds of Sheep found in the Russian
     Dominions, and amongst the Tartar Hordes, 8vo.Investigation of the Causes of Scarcity of 1800.Miscellaneous Thoughts on Planting Timber Trees, chiefly for the
     climate of Scotland, by Agricola, 8vo.Description of a Patent Hot-house, 1804.In "Public Characters of 1800 and 1801," a portrait is given of him, a
list of his works, and it thus speaks of him: "The manners of this
ingenious and very useful man were plain and frank, an indication of an
honest and good heart.He was benevolent and generous, a tender parent,
and a warm friend, and very highly respected in the circle of his
acquaintance."There is a portrait of him, painted by Anderson, and
engraved by Ridley.A copy is given in the Mirror, (published by Vernon
and Hood), of Nov.He died at West Ham, Essex, in 1808, aged 69.Lysons, in the
Supplement to his Environs of London, gives a few particulars of him.He was the youngest son of Sir Robert Walpole, who so
long guided the destinies of England, and whose attractive and
benevolent private life, seems to have fully merited the praise of
Pope's elegant muse:

   _Seen him I have; but in his happier hour
   Of social pleasure,--ill exchang'd for power--
   Seen him uncumber'd with the venal tribe,
   Smile without art, and win without a bribe._

The best portraits of this intelligent and acute writer, Horace Walpole,
are the portrait in Mr.Dallaway's richly decorated edition of the
Anecdotes of Painting, from Sir Joshua Reynolds, and that in Mr.Cadell's Contemporary Portraits, from Lawrence.Another portrait is prefixed to the ninth volume of his works, in 4to.1825, from a picture in the possession of the Marquis of Hertford.There
is another portrait, engraved by Pariset, from Falconot.Walpole
died in March, 1797, at his favourite seat at Strawberry-hill, at the
age of eighty.His manners were highly polished, from his having, during
the course of a long life, frequented the first societies.His
conversation abounded with interesting anecdote and playful wit.Felicity of narration, and liveliness of expression, mark his graceful
pen.The Prince de Ligne (a perfect judge) thus speaks of his _History
of the Modern Taste in Gardening_:--"Je n'en admire pas moins
l'eloquence, et la profondeur, de son ouvrage sur les jardins."Walpole himself says:--"We have given the true model of gardening to the
world: let other countries mimic or corrupt our taste; but let it reign
here on its verdant throne, original by its elegant simplicity, and
proud of no other art than that of softening nature's harshnesses, and
copying her graceful touch."18 of his Essays, pays high respect to Mr.Walpole, and differs from him "with great deference and reluctance."He
observes:--"I can hardly think it necessary to make any excuse for
calling Lord Orford, Mr.Walpole; it is the name by which he is best
known in the literary world, and to which his writings have given a
celebrity much beyond what any hereditary honour can bestow."Johnson observes:--"To his sketch of the improvements introduced by
Bridgman and Kent, and those garden artists, their immediate successors,
we may afford the best praise; he appears to be a faithful, and is, an
eloquent annalist."It is impossible to pass by this tribute, without
reminding my reader, that Mr.Johnson's own review of our ornamental
gardening, is energetic and luminous; as is indeed the whole of his
comprehensive general review of gardening, from the earliest period,
down to the close of the last century.He devoted himself to literary pursuits; was
a profound antiquary, and a truly worthy man.He died in 1800, aged 73,
at his chambers in the Temple, and was buried in the Temple church.The
attractive improvements in the gardens there, may be said to have
originated with him.He possibly looked on them as classic ground; for
in these gardens, the proud Somerset vowed to dye their white rose to a
bloody red, and Warwick prophesied that their brawl

                          ----in the Temple garden,
   Shall send, between the red rose and the white,
   A thousand souls to death and deadly night.He published,

     1.Observations on the more Ancient Statutes, 4to.To the 5th
     edition of which, in 1796, is prefixed his portrait.A translation of Orosius, ascribed to Alfred, with notes, 8vo.Tracts on the probability of reaching the North Pole, 4to.of the Archaeologia, is his paper On the Progress of
     Gardening.It was printed as a separate tract by Mr.Nichols, price
     1s.Miscellanies on various subjects, 4to.Nichols, in his Life of Bowyer, calls him "a man of amiable
character, polite, communicative and liberal;" and in the fifth volume
of his Illustrations of the Literary History of the Eighteenth Century,
he gives a neatly engraved portrait of Mr.Barrington, and some
memorials or letters of his.Boswell ("the cheerful, the pleasant,
the inimitable biographer of his illustrious friend"), thus relates Dr.Barrington:--"Soon after he
had published his excellent Observations on the Statutes, Johnson
waited on that worthy and learned gentleman, and having told him his
name, courteously said, 'I have read your book, Sir, with great
pleasure, and wish to be better known to you.'Thus began an
acquaintance which was continued with mutual regard as long as Johnson
lived."the learned author of Philological Enquiries,
thus speaks of Mr.Barrington's Observations on the Statutes:--"a
valuable work, concerning which it is difficult to decide, whether it is
more entertaining or more instructive."JOSEPH CRADOCK, Esq.whose "Village Memoirs" display his fine taste in
landscape gardening.This feeling and generous-minded man, whose gentle
manners, polite learning, and excellent talents, entitled him to an
acquaintance with the first characters of the age, died in 1826, at the
great age of eighty-five.This classical scholar and polished gentleman,
who had (as a correspondent observes in the Gentleman's Magazine for
January, 1827) "the habit of enlivening and embellishing every thing
which he said with a certain lightning of eye and honied tone of voice,"
shone in the first literary circles, and ranked as his intimate and
valued friends (among many other enlightened persons), David Garrick,
and Warburton, Hurd, Johnson, Goldsmith, Percy, and Parr.Johnson
called him "a very pleasing gentleman."Indeed, he appears from every
account to have been in all respects an amiable and accomplished person.He had the honour of being selected to dance a minuet with the most
graceful of all dancers, Mrs.Garrick, at the Stratford Jubilee.Farmer addressed his unanswerable Essay on the
Learning of Shakspeare.In acts of humanity and kindness, he was
surpassed by few.Pope's line of _the gay conscience of a life well
spent_, might well have been applied to Mr.When in
Leicestershire, "he was respected by people of all parties for his
worth, and idolized by the poor for his benevolence."This honest and
honourable man, depicted his own mind in the concluding part of his
inscription, for the banks of the lake he formed in his romantic and
picturesque grounds, in that county:--

   _Here on the bank Pomona's blossoms glow,
   And finny myriads sparkle from below;
   Here let the mind at peaceful anchor rest,
   And heaven's own sunshine cheer the guiltless breast._[97]

In 1773 he partly took his "Zobeide" from an unfinished tragedy by
Voltaire.On sending a copy to Ferney, the enlightened veteran thus
concluded his answer: "You have done too much honour to an old sick man
of eighty.I am, with the most sincere esteem and gratitude,

   "Sir, your obedient servant,
   "VOLTAIRE."[98]

I cannot refrain from adding a short extract from the above quoted
magazine, as it brings to one's memory another much esteemed and worthy
man:--"Here, perhaps, it may be allowable to allude to the sincere
attachment between Mr.Cradock, and his old friend Mr.Cradock an
annual visit at Gumley Hall; but on Mr.Cradock settling in London, the
intercourse became incessant, and we doubt not that the daily
correspondence which took place between them, contributed to cheer the
latter days of these two veterans in literature.They had both of them
in early life enjoyed the flattering distinction of an intimacy with the
same eminent characters; and to hear the different anecdotes elicited in
their animated conversations respecting Johnson and others, was indeed
an intellectual treat of no ordinary description.Nichols possessed a similarity in taste and judgment.They were both
endowed with peculiar quickness of comprehension, and with powers and
accuracy of memory rarely equalled."One may say of the liberal minded
Mr.Johnson, that his love of
literature was a passion that stuck to his last stand.Cradock have, since his decease, been published by Mr.J. B. Nichols, in
4 vols.They contain his Essay on Gardening and Village Memoirs.They are enriched by a miniature portrait of him, by Hone, in 1764, when
Mr.Cradock was in his prime of life, in his twenty-second year, and
when his piercing eyes and intelligent countenance, were thought to have
resembled those of Mr.Cradock, taken of him only a month before his decease.In the above
quoted magazine, is a copy of this profile, with a memoir.SIR JOSEPH BANKS.There is a fine portrait of him by Russel, engraved by
Collyer.Cadell's Contemporary Portraits is another fine one,
from the pencil of Lawrence.His portrait is preserved by the
Horticultural Society of London, and in the British Museum is his bust,
chiselled and presented by the Hon.A good copy of the
engraving by Collyer is in the European Magazine for Feb.1795, and
from the memoir there given I select the following:

"If to support the dignity of the first literary society in the world,
and by firmness and candour to conciliate the regard of its members; if
rejecting the allurements of dissipation, to explore sciences unknown,
and to cultivate the most manly qualities of the human heart; if to
dispense a princely fortune in the enlargement of science, the
encouragement of genius, and the alleviation of distress, be
circumstances which entitle any one to a more than ordinary share of
respect, few will dispute the claim of the person whose portrait
ornaments the present magazine.... In short, he is entitled to every
praise that science, liberality, and intelligence can bestow on their
most distinguished favourites."Pulteney, in his handsome dedication of his Sketches on the progress
of Botany, to Sir Joseph, thus alludes to his voyage with Cook:--"To
whom could a work of this nature with so much propriety be addressed, as
to him who had not only relinquished, for a series of years, all the
allurements that a polished nation could display to opulence; but had
exposed himself to numberless perils, and the repeated risk of life
itself, that he might attain higher degrees of that knowledge, which
these sketches are intended to communicate."The Academy of Sciences at Dijon, in their "Notice sur Sir Jos.Banks,"
thus apostrophizes his memory:--"Ombre de Banks!apparois en ce lieu
consacre au culte des sciences et des lettres; viens occuper la place
que t'y conservent les muses, accepter les couronnes qu'elles-memes
t'ont tressees!viens recevoir le tribut de nos sentimens, temoignage
sincere de notre douleur et de not regrets; et par le souvenir de tes
vertus, viens enflammer nos coeurs de cet amour pour le bien, qui fut
le mobile de toutes tes actions!Johnson, in his History of English Gardening, justly calls him "This
universal patron of the arts and sciences.Natural history was the
favourite of his scientific studies, and every part of it was enriched
by his researches."He again hails him as "a munificent friend of
science and literature."The name of Banks will always be associated
with that of Solander, the favourite pupil of Linnaeus, and with that of
the immortal Cook.De Lille closes his _Jardins_ with a most generous
and animated invocation to the memory of this intrepid navigator.The portrait of this eminent physician of Bath, is
engraved by Fitler, from a painting by Daniel, of Bath, in 1791.It is
prefixed to his "Influence of the Passions upon Disorders."He died in
August, 1824, at the age of eighty-one.He published,

     1.Essay on the Preservation of the Health of Persons employed in
     Agriculture, 1s.Miscellaneous Tracts relating to Natural History; selected from
     the principal writers of antiquity.Remarks on the Influence of Climate, Situation, Nature of
     Country, &c. The Encyclop.of Gardening calls this "a most
     interesting work."says "it
     displays an almost unlimited extent of learning and research."An Historical View of the Taste for Gardening and Laying out
     Grounds among the Nations of Antiquity._Dilly._

A list of his other works (nearly twenty in number), may be seen in the
Dictionary of Living Authors, or in vol.;
which last work says that the late Lord Thurlow, at whose table he was
almost a constant guest, declared that "he never saw such a man; that he
knew every thing, and knew it better than any one else."Falconer's Historical View of the Taste for Gardening.This honest, much-esteemed, and inoffensive man, though
so deservedly eminent as a botanist, published only the following work
on horticulture:--"Directions for Cultivating the Crambe Maritima, or
Sea-kale for the Use of the Table."A new edition, enlarged, with three
engravings.Loudon says, that this pamphlet has done more to
recommend the culture of _sea-kale_ and diffuse the knowledge of it,
than all his predecessors.Nearly three pages of the Encyclopaedia are
enriched with the result of all that has appeared on the cultivation of
this vegetable by English, Scotch, or French writers.Curtis have long been held in high esteem.The first number of his Flora Londinensis appeared in 1777.He commenced
his Botanical Magazine in 1787.His Observations on British Grasses,
appeared in a second edition, with coloured plates, in 1790.His
Lectures were published after his death, to which is prefixed his
portrait.He died
in 1799, was buried in Battersea church-yard, and on his grave-stone
these lines are inscribed:--

   _While living herbs shall spring profusely wild,
     Or gardens cherish all that's sweet and gay,
   So long thy works shall please, dear nature's child,
     So long thy memory suffer no decay._


THOMAS MARTYN, Professor of Botany at Cambridge, whose striking
portrait, from a picture by Russel, appears in Dr.Thornton's superb
work on botany.He died in June, 1825, in the ninetieth year of his age.His edition of Miller's Gardener's Dictionary, appeared in 4 vols.Johnson observes, that this work "requires no comment.It is
a standard, practical work, never to be surpassed."Martyn also
published _Flora Rustica_, a description of plants, useful or injurious
in husbandry, _with coloured plates_, 4 vols.There are portraits of him by Sir J. Reynolds, engraved
by Collyer and by Green; one by Cotes, engraved by Houston, in 1772; and
a profile by Pariset, after a drawing by Falconot.He died in 1796, aged
sixty-nine.He published,

     1.Plans and Views of the Buildings and Gardens at Kew.A Dissertation on Oriental Gardening, second edition, with
     additions.To which is annexed an Explanatory Discourse, 4to.This work gave rise to those smart satires, _An Heroic
     Epistle_, and _An Heroic Postscript_.HUMPHREY REPTON, Esq.His portrait is prefixed to his Observations on
the Theory and Practice of Landscape Gardening, folio.He also
published on this subject:

     1.Sketches and Hints on Landscape Gardening, folio, 1795.Enquiry into the Changes in Landscape Gardening, 8vo.On the Introduction of Indian Architecture and Gardening, folio,
     1808.A charming little
     essay inserted in the _Linn.Fragments on the Theory and Practice of Landscape Gardening,
     4to.of Gardening, is some general
     information respecting Mr.WILLIAM FORSYTH, Esq.His portrait is prefixed to the seventh edition of
his Treatise on the Culture and Management of Fruit Trees, 8vo.1824;
also to the 4to.He also published
Observations on the diseases, defects, and injuries in all kinds of
Fruit and Forest Trees, with an account of a particular method of cure,
8vo.JAMES DICKSON, who established the well-known seed and herb shop in
Covent-garden, and died at the age of eighty-six, a few years ago,
appears to have been very much esteemed.His family at Croydon possess
his portrait, and there is another preserved by the Horticultural
Society.He married for his second wife a sister of the intrepid
traveller Mungo Park.Dickson, when searching for plants in the
Hebrides, in 1789, was accompanied by him.Handsome mention is made of
Mr.Dickson in the Life of Mungo Park, prefixed to the "Journal of a
Mission to the Interior of Africa."In the above life, the friendly and
generous assistance which Sir Joseph Banks shewed both to Mr.Dickson,
and to Mungo Park, is very pleasingly recorded.Dickson
is given in the 5th vol.He published,
Fasciculus Plantarum Cryptog.RICHARD PAYNE KNIGHT, Esq.author of The Landscape, a didactic poem,
4to.A second edition, _with a preface_, appeared in 4to.Knight, on the subject of
landscape scenery, except his occasional allusions thereto, in his
Analytical Enquiry into the Principles of Taste, the second edition of
which appeared in 8vo.This latter work embraces a variety of
subjects, and contains many energetic pages, particularly those on
Homer, and on the English drama.His philosophical survey of human life
"in its last stages," (at p.461), and where he alludes to "the hooks
and links which hold the affections of age," is worthy of all praise; it
is deep, solemn, and affecting.The other publications of this gentleman
are enumerated in Dr.Knight, in his Landscape,
after invoking the genius of Virgil, in reference to his

   _----O qui me gelidis in vallibus Hoemi
   Sistat, et ingenti ramorum protegat unbra,_

thus proceeds, after severely censuring Mr._Browne_, who

   ----bade the stream 'twixt banks close shaved to glide;
   Banish'd the thickets of high-bowering wood,
   Which hung, reflected o'er the glassy flood:
   Where screen'd and shelter'd from the heats of day,
   Oft on the moss-grown stone reposed I lay,
   And tranquil view'd the limpid stream below,
   Brown with o'er hanging shade, in circling eddies flow.Dear peaceful scenes, that now prevail no more,
   Your loss shall every weeping muse deplore!Your poet, too, in one dear favour'd spot,
   Shall shew your beauties are not quite forgot:
   Protect from all the sacrilegious waste
   Of false improvement, and pretended taste,
   _One tranquil vale!_[100] where oft, from care retir'd
   He courts the muse, and thinks himself inspired;
   Lulls busy thought, and rising hope to rest,
   And checks each wish that dares his peace molest.After scorning "wisdom's solemn empty toys," he proceeds:

     Let me, retir'd from business, toil, and strife,
   Close amidst books and solitude my life;
   Beneath yon high-brow'd rocks in thickets rove,
   Or, meditating, wander through the grove;
   Or, from the cavern, view the noontide beam
   Dance on the rippling of the lucid stream,
   While the wild woodbine dangles o'er my head,
   And various flowers around their fragrance spread.*       *       *       *       *

   Then homeward as I sauntering move along,
   The nightingale begins his evening song;
   Chanting a requiem to departed light,
   That smooths the raven down of sable night.After an animated tribute to _Homer_, he reviews the rising and the
slumbering, or drooping of the arts, midst storms of war, and gloomy
bigotry.Hail, arts divine!--still may your solace sweet
   Cheer the recesses of my calm retreat;
   And banish every mean pursuit, that dares
   Cloud life's serene with low ambitious cares.Vain is the pomp of wealth: its splendid halls,
   And vaulted roofs, sustain'd by marble walls.--
   In beds of state pale sorrow often sighs,
   Nor gets relief from gilded canopies:
   But arts can still new recreation find,
   To soothe the troubles of th' afflicted mind;
   Recall the ideal work of ancient days,
   And man in his own estimation raise;
   Visions of glory to his eyes impart,
   And cheer with conscious pride his drooping heart.After a review of our several timber trees, and a tribute to our native
streams, and woods; and after describing in happy lines _Kamtschatka's_
dreary coast, he concludes his poem with reflections on the ill-fated
_Queen of France_, whose

   Waning beauty, in the dungeon's gloom,
   Feels, yet alive, the horrors of the tomb!Knight's portrait, painted by Sir Thomas Lawrence, is preserved at
Downton Castle, near Ludlow; and is engraved among Cadell's Contemporary
Portraits.It is also engraved by Bromley, from the same painter.Another portrait was in the library of the late Mr.He died at Edinburgh in June 1828, at the great age
of eighty-four.His portrait was drawn by Raiburn, and engraved by
Mitchell.He was a contemporary of several eminent persons, whose
society and friendship formed one of the chief pleasures of his life.There was scarcely an institution proposed for the benefit of his native
city, Edinburgh, to which his name will not be found a contributor.He
was, in fact, the patron and benefactor of all public charities.In 1809
he projected, and by his exertions, succeeded in establishing, the
Horticultural Society of Edinburgh.His animated and scientific
discourses, delivered at the meetings of the Caledonian Horticultural
Society, will always be perused with eager pleasure by every
horticulturist.In that delivered in December, 1814, and inserted in the
fifth number of their Memoirs, this zealous well-wisher of his native
city, thus exults:--"I am now, gentlemen, past the seventieth year of my
age, and I have been a steady admirer both of Flora and Pomona from the
very earliest period of my youth.During a pretty long life, it has been
my lot to have had opportunities of visiting gardens in three different
quarters of the globe, in Europe, in Asia, and in Africa; and from what
I have seen, I am decidedly of opinion, that at the present day, there
is not a large city in the world, which enjoys a supply of vegetable
food in more abundance, in greater variety, or in higher excellence,
than the city of Edinburgh.From the potatoe to the pine-apple,--from
the most useful to the most delicious productions of the vegetable
kingdom, we are not at present outdone, as far as my observation goes,
by any large city on the face of the earth."His medical talents may
well be believed not to have been small, when it is told, that he was
the rival in practice, and by no means an unsuccessful one, of the
illustrious Cullen, of the Monros, and of Gregory.Duncan was eminently distinguished for his sociality, and the desire to
benefit all mankind.His
favourite amusement was _gardening_.He possessed a garden in the
neighbourhood of Edinburgh, which he cultivated entirely with his own
hands, and on the door of which was placed, in conspicuous letters,
'_hinc salus_.'He was particularly kind to the students attending his
lectures, and gave a tea-drinking every Sunday evening to about a dozen
of them, by rotation, who assembled at six o'clock and went away at
eight.When old, he used sometimes to forget the lapse of time, and in
his lectures, frequently spoke about the _late_ Mr.Haller, who lived a
century before.To the last year of his life he never omitted going up,
on the morning of the 1st of May, to wash his face in the dew of the
summit of a mountain near Edinburgh, called Arthur's Seat.He had the
merit of being the father of the present Dr.Duncan, the celebrated
author of the Edinburgh Dispensatory, and professor of materia medica.Duncan's funeral was properly made a public one, at which the
professors, magistrates, and medical bodies of Edinburgh attended, to
testify their sorrow and respect.His portrait was taken by Sir Thomas Lawrence, and is
now at Foxley.[101] The Hereford Journal of Wednesday, September 16,
1829, thus relates his decease:--"On Monday last died, at Foxley, in
this county, Sir Uvedale Price, Bart.in the eighty-third year of his
age.The obituary of 1829 will not record a name more gifted or more
dear!In a county where he was one of the oldest, as well as one of the
most constant of its inhabitants, it were superfluous to enumerate his
many claims to distinction and regret.His learning, his sagacity, his
exquisite taste, his indefatigable ardour, would have raised to eminence
a man much less conspicuous by his station in life, by his
correspondence with the principal literati of Europe, and by the
attraction and polish of his conversation and manners.Possessing his
admirable faculties to so venerable an age, we must deplore that a
gentleman who conferred such honour on our county is removed from that
learned retirement in which he delighted, and from that enchanting scene
which, in every sense, he so greatly adorned.He is succeeded in his
title by his only son, now Sir Robert Price, one of our
representatives."Sir Uvedale published the following:

     1.An Essay on the Picturesque, as compared with the Sublime and
     Beautiful, and on the use of studying pictures for the purpose of
     improving real landscape, 8vo.This volume was afterwards
     published in 1796, in 8vo.with _considerable additions_, and in
     1798 was published at _Hereford_ a second volume, being an Essay on
     Artificial Water, an Essay on Decorations near the House, and an
     Essay on Architecture and Buildings as connected with Scenery.A Letter to H. Repton, Esq.on the application of the practice
     and principles of Landscape Painting to Landscape Gardening.Intended as a supplement to the Essays.Second edition,
     _Hereford_, 1798, 8vo.This is a sportive display of pleasant wit,
     polished learning, and deep admiration of the great landscape
     painters.Keen as some of his pages are, and lamenting that there
     should have been any controversy ("or tilting at each other's
     breasts,") on the subject of Launcelot Browne's works, "I trust,
     (says he,) however, that my friends will vouch for me, that
     whatever sharpness there may be in my style, there is no rancour in
     my heart."Repton in his Enquiry into the Changes of Landscape
     Gardening, acknowledges "the elegant and gentleman-like manner in
     which Mr.Indeed, many pages in
     this present letter shew this.A Dialogue on the distinct Characters of the Picturesque and the
     Beautiful, in answer to the objections of Mr.Knight, 1801,
     8vo.[102]

A general review of Sir Uvedale's ideas on this subject, is candidly
given by Mr.after a mature study of
_all_ the modern writers who have endeavoured to form "a taste for the
harmony and connection of natural scenery."Loudon farther calls him
"the great reformer of landscape gardening."We have to regret, that though so many springs must have cheered the
long life of Sir Uvedale Price, (and which he calls the _dolce prima
vera, gioventu dell'anno_, and whose blossoms, flowers, and
"profusion of fresh, gay, and beautiful colours and sweets," he so
warmly dwelt on in many of his pages,) and though the number of these
springs must have nearly equalled those which gilded the days of Lord
Kames, of the honourable Horace Walpole, of Mr.Gilpin, and of Joseph
Cradock, Esq.yet we have to regret that his classic pen has presented
to the public no other efforts of his genius and cultivated taste, than
the few respectable ones above stated.Had he chose to have indulged his
own powers in describing what has been done towards "embellishing the
face of this noble kingdom," (to quote his own words,) we might have
perused descriptive pages equal to his own critical and refined review
of Blenheim, or of Powis Castle, and of a character as high and pure, as
those of Thomas Whateley.In proof of this, we need only refer to many
pages in his Essays,--not only when he so well paints the charms of
sequestered nature, whether in its deep recesses, _o'er canopied with
luscious eglantine_,--in the "modest and retired character of a
brook,"--the rural simplicity of a cottage, with its lilacs and fruit
trees, its rustic porch, covered with vine or ivy, but when he dwells on
the ruins and on "the religious calm" of our abbeys,[103] or on our old
mansion-houses, with their terraces, their summer-houses covered with
ivy, and mixed with wild vegetation.And we need farther only to refer
to those feeling pages in his second volume, where he laments that his
own youth and inexperience should (in order to follow the silly folly of
_being in the fashion_,) have doomed to sudden and total destruction an
old paternal garden, with all its embellishments, and whose destruction
revives in these pages all the emotions of his youth; and he concludes
these pages of regret, by candidly confessing, that he gained little but
"much difficulty, expence and dirt," and that he thus detains his
readers in relating what so personally concerns himself, "because there
is nothing so useful to others, however humiliating to ourselves, as
the frank confession of our errors and of their causes.No man can
equally with the person who committed them, impress upon others the
extent of the mischief done, and the regret that follows it."It is
painful to quit pages so interesting as those that immediately follow
this quotation.[104]

There are few objects that the enlightened mind of Sir Uvedale has not
remarked.Take the following as an instance:

"Nothing is so captivating, or seems so much to accord with our ideas of
beauty, as the smiles of a beautiful countenance; yet they have
sometimes a striking mixture of the other character.Of this kind are
those smiles which break out suddenly from a serious, sometimes from
almost a severe countenance, and which, when that gleam is over, leave
no trace of it behind--

   _Brief as the lightning in the collied night,
   That in a spleen unfolds both heaven and earth,
   And e'er a man has time to say, behold!The jaws of darkness do devour it up._

There is another smile, which seems in the same degree to accord with
the ideas of beauty only: it is that smile which proceeds from a mind
full of sweetness and sensibility, and which, when it is over, still
leaves on the countenance its mild and amiable impression; as after the
sun is set, the mild glow of his rays is still diffused over every
object.This smile, with the glow that accompanies it, is beautifully
painted by Milton, as most becoming an inhabitant of heaven:

   To whom the angel, with a smile that glow'd
   Celestial rosy red, love's proper hue,
   Thus answered."The great object in the above Essays, is to improve the laying out of
grounds by studying the productions "of those great artists _who have
most diligently studied the beauties of nature_.On this subject he has
in these volumes poured forth the effusions of his richly gifted mind,
in his contemplation of the works of those really great painters, whose
landscape scenery, from the most rural to the grandest, "have been
consecrated by long uninterrupted admiration."Instead of the narrow,
mechanical practice of a few English gardeners, or layers-out of
grounds, he wishes "the noble and varied works of the eminent painters
of every age, and of every country, and those of _their_ supreme
mistress NATURE, should be the great models of imitation."[105] He has
supported many of his opinions or observations, or embellished or
enlivened them, by acute allusions, not only to Milton but to
Shakspeare, whom he calls "that most original creator, and most accurate
observer."[106]

He has depicted his own mind in p.378 of the first volume of his
Essays; for after lamenting that despotic system of improvement which
demands all to be laid open,--all that obstructs to be levelled to the
ground,--houses, orchards, gardens, all swept away,--nothing tending to
humanize the mind--and that a despot thinks every person an intruder who
enters his domain, wishing to destroy cottages and pathways, and to
reign alone, he thus proceeds:--"Here I cannot resist paying a tribute
to the memory of a beloved uncle, and recording a benevolence towards
all the inhabitants around him, that struck me from my earliest
remembrance; and it is an impression I wish always to cherish.It seemed
as if he had made his extensive walks as much for them as for himself;
they used them as freely, and their enjoyment was his.The village bore
as strong marks of his and of his brother's attentions (for in that
respect they appeared to have but one mind), to the comforts and
pleasures of its inhabitants.Such attentive kindnesses, are amply
repaid by affectionate regard and reverence; and were they general
throughout the kingdom, they would do much more towards guarding us
against democratical opinions

   _Than twenty thousand soldiers, arm'd in proof._

The cheerfulness of the scene I have mentioned, and all the interesting
circumstances attending it, (so different from those of solitary
grandeur,) have convinced me, that he who destroys dwellings, gardens
and inclosures, for the sake of mere extent, and parade of property,
only extends the bounds of monotony, and of dreary, selfish pride; but
contrasts those of vanity, amusement and humanity."One may trace, too, his feeling mind towards the conclusion of his
second volume, where, after many pleasing pages on the rural scenery of
cottages, and in hamlets and villages, ("where a lover of humanity may
find so many sources of amusement and interest,") and on the means of
embellishing them, "I could wish (says he) to turn the minds of
improvers from too much attachment to solitary parade, towards objects
more connected with general habitation and embellishment;... and it may
be truly said, that there is no way in which wealth can produce such
natural unaffected variety, and such interest, as by adorning a real
village, and promoting the comforts and enjoyments of its inhabitants._Goldsmith_ has most feelingly described (more, I trust, from the warmth
of a poetical imagination and quick sensibility than from real fact),
the ravages of wealthy pride.My aim is to shew, that they are no less
hostile to real taste, than to humanity; and should I succeed, it is
possible that those, whom all the affecting images and pathetic touches
of Goldsmith would not have restrained from destroying a village, may
even be induced to build one, in order to shew their taste in the
decoration and disposition of village-houses and cottages."After many
traces of village scenery, he thus proceeds: "The church, together with
the church-yard, is, on various accounts, an interesting object to the
villagers of every age and disposition; to the old and serious, as a
spot consecrated to the purposes of religion, where the living christian
performs his devotions, and where, after his death, his body is
deposited near those of his ancestors and departed friends, and
relations: to the young and thoughtless, as a place where, on the day of
rest from labour, they meet each other in their holiday clothes; and
also (what forms a singular contrast with tombs and grave-stones), as
the place which at their wakes, is the chief scene of their gaiety and
rural sports."After speaking of the yew, which from the solemnity of
its foliage, is most suited to church-yards, being as much consecrated
to the dead as the cypress among the ancients, he says that "there seems
to be no reason, why in the more southern parts of England, cypresses
should not be mixed with yews, or why cedars of Libanus, which are
perfectly hardy, and of a much quicker growth than yews, should not be
introduced.In high romantic situations, particularly, where the
church-yard is elevated above the general level, a cedar, spreading his
branches downwards from that height, would have the most picturesque,
and at the same time, the most solemn effect."Johnson's lately published History of
English Gardening, to add a very early tract on that subject, and I take
the liberty of transcribing his exact words: "A Boke of Husbandry,
London, 4to.This little work is very rare, being one of the productions
from the press of Wynkin de Worde.It consists of but twelve leaves, and
is without date, but certainly was not of a later year than 1500.'Here begyneth a treatyse of
Husbandry which Mayster Groshede somtyme Bysshop of Lyncoln made, and
translated it out of Frensshe into Englyshe, whiche techeth all maner of
men to governe theyr londes, tenementes, and demesnes ordinately.''Here endeth the Boke of Husbandry, _and of Plantynge, and Graffynge of
Trees and Vynes_.'"Nichols printed the Life of Robert
_Grosseteste_, the celebrated Bishop of Lincoln.With an Account of the Bishop's _Works_, &c. Illustrated with plates of
his Tomb, Ring, and Crosier.Page 17.--I have in this page alluded to the hard fate of Correggio.That my reader may know who he was, let him inspect those pages in vol.i. of Sir U. Price's Essays, where he thus concludes a critique on his
genius: "I believe that if a variety of persons, conversant in painting,
were asked what pictures (taking every circumstance together) appeared
to them most beautiful, and had left the softest and most pleasing
impression,--the majority would fix upon Correggio."Lawson, in the dedication to his New Orchard and Garden,
gives the name of an author on gardening, whose book I have not met
with.He dedicates it "to the right worshipfull _Sir Henry Belosses_,"
and he acknowledges, "1st.the many courtesies you have vouchsaved me.your delightfull skill in matters of this nature.the profit
which I received from your _learned discourse of Fruit-trees_.your animating and assisting of others to such endeavours.Last of all,
the rare worke of your owne in this kind, all which to publish under
your protection, I have adventured as you see."From this it would
appear, that this "learned discourse" is transfused into the New Orchard
and Garden.After all, perhaps, this "learned discourse" was merely in
conversation.At all events, it has recorded the name of Sir Henry as
warmly devoted to orcharding, or to horticulture.W. Lawson, in his
preface, dwells upon the praises of this art, "how some, and not a few
of the best, have accounted it a chiefe part of earthly happinesse to
have faire and pleasant orchards--how ancient, how profitable, how
pleasant it is."His fourteenth chapter is On the Age of Fruit-trees.After stating that some "shall dure 1000 years," and the age of many of
the apple-trees in his little orchard, he says: "If my trees be 100
yeares old, and yet want 200 of their growth before they leave
increasing, which make 300, then we must needs resolve, that this 300
yeere are but the third part of a tree's life, because (as all things
living besides) so trees must have allowed them for their increase one
third, another third for their stand, and a third part of time also for
their decay."--"So that I resolve upon good reason, that Fruit-trees
well ordered, may live and live 1000 yeeres, and beare fruit, and the
longer, the more, the greater, and the better, because his vigour is
proud and stronger, when his yeeres are many.You shall see old trees
put their buds and blossoms both sooner and more plentifully than young
trees by much.And I sensibly perceive my young trees to inlarge their
fruit, as they grow greater, both for number, and greatnesse."--"And if
Fruit-trees last to this age, how many ages is it to be supposed, strong
and huge Timber-trees will last?whose huge bodies require the yeeres of
divers _Methushalaes_, before they end their days; whose sap is strong
and better, whose barke is hard and thicke, and their substance solid
and stiffe: all which are defences of health and long life.Their
strength withstands all forcible winds."His seventeenth chapter is on
the Ornaments of an Orchard.I here give the whole of that chapter:


"Me thinks hitherto we haue but a bare Orchard for fruit, and but halfe
good, so long as it wants those comely ornaments, that should giue
beauty to all our labours, and make much for the honest delight of the
owner and his friends."For it is not to be doubted: but as God hath giuen man things
profitable, so hath he allowed him honest comfort, delight, and
recreation in all the workes of his hands.Nay, all his labours vnder
the sunne without this are troubles, and vexation of mind: For what is
greedy gaine, without delight, but moyling, and turmoyling slauery?But
comfortable delight, with content, is the good of euery thing, and the
patterne of heauen.A morsell of bread with comfort, is better by much
than a fat oxe with vnquietnesse.And who can deny, but the principall
end of an Orchard, is the honest delight of one wearied with the works
of his lawfull calling?The very workes of and in an Orchard and Garden,
are better than the ease and rest of and from other labours.When God
had made man after his owne image, in a perfect state, and would haue
him to represent himselfe in authority, tranquillity and pleasure vpon
the earth, he placed him in Paradise.but a Garden
and Orchard of trees and hearbs, full of pleasure?The gods of the earth, resembling the great God of heauen in
authority, maiestie, and abundance of all things, wherein is their most
delight?and whither doe they withdraw themselues from the troublesome
affaires of their estate, being tyred with the hearing and iudging of
litigious Controuersies?choked (as it were) with the close ayres of
their sumptuous buildings, their stomacks cloyed with variety of
Banquets, their eares filled and ouerburthened with tedious
discoursings?but into their Orchards, made and prepared,
dressed and destinated for that purpose, to renue and refresh their
sences, and to call home their ouer-wearied spirits.Nay, it is (no
doubt) a comfort to them, to set open their cazements into a most
delicate Garden and Orchard, whereby they may not onely see that,
wherein they are so much delighted, but also to giue fresh, sweet, and
pleasant ayre to their galleries and chambers."And looke, what these men do by reason of their greatnes and ability,
prouoked with delight, the same doubtlesse would euery of vs doe, if
power were answerable to our desires, whereby we shew manifestly, that
of all other delights on earth, they that are taken by Orchards, are
most excellent, and most agreeing with nature."For whereas euery other pleasure commonly filles some one of our
sences, and that onely, with delight, this makes all our sences swimme
in pleasure, and that with infinite variety, ioyned with no less
commodity."That famous philosopher, and matchlesse orator, M. T. C. prescribeth
nothing more fit, to take away the tediousnesse and heauy load of three
or foure score yeeres, than the pleasure of an Orchard."What can your eyes desire to see, your ears to hear, your mouth to
tast, or your nose to smell, that is not to be had in an Orchard, with
abundance and variety?What more delightsome than an infinite variety of
sweet smelling flowers?decking with sundry colours, the greene mantle
of the earth, vniuersall mother of vs all, so by them bespotted, so
dyed, that all the world cannot sample them, and wherein it is more fit
to admire the Dyer, than imitate his workemanship.Colouring not onely
the earth, but decking the ayre, and sweetning euery breath and spirit."The rose red, damaske, veluet, and double double prouince rose, the
sweet muske rose, double and single, the double and single white rose.The faire and sweet senting Woodbinde, double and single, and double
double.Purple cowslips, and double cowslips, and double double
cowslips.The violet nothing behinde the
best, for smelling sweetly.A thousand more will prouoke your content."And all these, by the skill of your gardner, so comely, and orderly
placed in your borders and squares, and so intermingled, that none
looking thereon, cannot but wonder, to see, what Nature corrected by Art
can doe."When you behold in diuers corners of your Orchard Mounts of stone, or
wood curiously wrought within and without, or of earth couered with
fruit-trees: Kentish cherry, damsons, plummes, &c. with staires of
precious workmanship.And in some corner (or moe) a true dyall or
Clocke, and some anticke workes, and especially siluer-sounding musique,
mixt instruments and voices, gracing all the rest: How will you be rapt
with delight?"Large walkes, broad and long, close and open, like the Tempe groves in
Thessalie, raised with grauell and sand, hauing seats and bankes of
cammomile, all this delights the minde, and brings health to the body."View now with delight the workes of your owne hands, your fruit-trees
of all sorts, loaden with sweet blossomes, and fruit of all tasts,
operations, and colours: your trees standing in comely order which way
soeuer you looke."Your borders on euery side hanging and drooping with feberries,
raspberries, barberries, currens, and the rootes of your trees powdred
with strawberries, red, white, and greene, what a pleasure is this?Your
gardner can frame your lesser wood to the shape of men armed in the
field, ready to giue battell: or swift running greyhounds: or of well
sented and true running hounds, to chase the deere, or hunt the hare.This kind of hunting shall not waste your corne, nor much your coyne."Mazes well framed a mans height, may perhaps make your friends wander
in gathering of berries, till he cannot recouer himselfe without your
helpe."To haue occasion to exercise within your Orchard: it shall be a
pleasure to haue a bowling alley, or rather (which is more manly, and
more healthfull) a paire of buts, to stretch your armes."Rosemary and sweete eglantine are seemely ornaments about a doore or
window, and so is woodbinde."And in mine opinion, I could highly commend your Orchard, if either
through it, or hard by it there should runne a pleasant riuer with
siluer streames: you might sit in your mount, and angle a pickled trout,
or sleightie eele, or some other dainty fish.Or moats, whereon you
might row with a boate, and fish with nettes."Store of bees in a dry and warme bee-house, comely made of fir-boords,
to sing, and sit, and feede vpon your flowers and sprouts, make a
pleasant noyse and sight.For cleanely and innocent bees, of all other
things, loue and become, and thriue in an Orchard.If they thriue (as
they must needes, if your gardner bee skilfull, and loue them: for they
loue their friends, and hate none but their enemies) they will, besides
the pleasure, yeeld great profit, to pay him his wages.Yea, the
increase of twenty stockes or stooles, with other fees, will keepe your
Orchard."You need not doubt their stings, for they hurt not whom they know, and
they know their keeper and acquaintance.If you like not to come amongst
them, you need not doubt them: for but neere their store, and in their
owne defence, they will not fight, and in that case onely (and who can
blame them?)Some (as that
Honorable Lady at Hacknes, whose name doth much grace mine Orchard) vse
to make seats for them in the stone wall of their Orchard, or Garden,
which is good, but wood is better."A vine ouer-shadowing a seate, is very comely, though her grapes with
vs ripe slowly."One chiefe grace that adornes an Orchard, I cannot let slip: A brood of
nightingales, who with their seuerall notes and tunes, with a strong
delightsome voyce, out of a weake body, will beare you company night and
day.She loues (and liues in) hots of woods in her hart.She will helpe
you to cleanse your trees of caterpillars, and all noysome wormes and
flyes.The gentle robin red-breast will helpe her, and in winter in the
coldest stormes will keepe a part.Neither will the silly wren be behind
in summer, with her distinct whistle (like a sweete recorder) to cheere
your spirits."The black-bird and threstle (for I take it the thrush sings not, but
deuoures) sing loudly in a May morning, delights the eare much (and you
neede not want their company, if you haue ripe cherries or berries, and
would as gladly as the rest do you pleasure:) But I had rather want
their company than my fruit.A thousand of pleasant delightes are attendant in an
Orchard: and sooner shall I be weary, than I can recken the least part
of that pleasure, which one that hath and loues an Orchard, may find
therein."What is there of all these few that I haue reckoned, which doth not
please the eye, the eare, the smell, and taste?And by these sences as
organes, pipes, and windowes, these delights are carried to refresh the
gentle, generous, and noble mind."To conclude, what ioy may you haue, that you liuing to such an age,
shall see the blessings of God on your labours while you liue, and
leaue behind you to heires or successors (for God will make heires) such
a worke, that many ages after your death, shall record your loue to
their countrey?And the rather, when you consider (chap.to what
length of time your worke is like to last."Page 30.--Having briefly glanced in this page at the delight with which
Sir H. Davy, Mr.Whateley, viewed the flowers of
spring, I can only add this reflection of Sturm:--"If there were no
stronger proofs on earth of the power, goodness, and wisdom of God, the
flowers of spring alone, would be sufficient to convince us of it."Page 45.--The character of this modest and candid man, (Switzer), has
found an able advocate in the honest pen of Mr.159
of his History of Gardening, after noticing the acrimony of his
opponents, observes, "Neglect has pursued him beyond the grave, for his
works are seldom mentioned or quoted as authorities of the age he lived
in.To me he appears to be the best author of his time; and if I was
called upon to point out the classic authors of gardening, _Switzer_
should be one of the first on whom I would lay my finger.His works
evidence him at once to have been a sound, practical horticulturist, a
man well versed in the botanical science of the day, in its most
enlarged sense."Johnson enumerates the distinct contents of each
chapter in the Iconologia--the Kitchen Gardener--and the Fruit Gardener.Page 59.--The Tortworth Chesnut was growing previous to the Norman
Conquest.Even in the reign of
Stephen, it was known as the great chesnut of Tortworth.Page 62.--The author of this treatise, who is a zealous orchardist, is
lavish in his praise of a then discovered apple-tree and its produce,
"for the little cot-house to which it belongs, together with the little
quillet in which it stands, being several years since mortgaged for ten
pounds, the fruit of this tree alone, in a course of some years, freed
the house and garden, and its more valuable self, from that burden."A
neighbouring clergyman, too, was equally lavish, for he "talked of it in
all conversations," and such was his praise of it, that every one "fell
to admiration."Stafford is so pleased with this reverend
gentleman's zeal, in extending the cultivation of this apple, (_the
Royal Wilding_) that he says, "I could really wish, whenever the
original tree decayeth, his statue carved out of the stump, by the most
expert hand, and overlaid with gold, may be erected near the public
road, in the place of it, at the common charge of the country."He
celebrates also another apple, which "in a pleasant conversation was
named by a gentleman _super-celestial_.Another gentleman, in allusion
to _Pynes_, the name of my house, and to the common story of the West
India pineapple, (which is said to be the finest fruit in the world, and
to represent every exquisite flavour that is known), determined that it
should be called the _pyne-apple_; and by either of these names it is
talked of when pleasantry and conversation bring the remembrance of it
to the table."Page 64.--It is but justice to Mr.Gibson to say, that in his Fruit
Gardener, he has entered fully into the merits of Le Genre's _Le maniere
de cultiver les arbres fruitiers_; and that his pages are extremely
interesting.The great merits of Quintinye are also not overlooked.Page 84.--To the list of those deceased authors, whose portraits I have
not been able to discover, I must add the following:


JOHN BRADDICK, Esq.A zealous horticulturist and fruit grower.He
contributed four papers to the Horticultural Society of London.1827, is a communication by him, on some new
French pears.The editor of this magazine acknowledges "the very liberal
and truly patriotic manner in which our highly-valued correspondent
shares every novelty he receives with those whose interest it is to
increase and disseminate such novelties."In the above magazine for
March, 1827, is another spirited communication by him, on these new
pears, introduced from France, in which he says:--"And here I think it
necessary to premise, that the following list is the cream skimmed off
some thousands of new pears, which I have for many years past been
getting together from various parts of the world, about two-thirds of
which yet remain for trial, not having fruited, together with some
thousands of seedling pears, apples, plums, cherries, apricots, peaches
and grapes, of my own raising; the fruits of some of which I hope will
continue to gladden the hearts of horticulturists for many years to
come.As they are produced I will make them known to the public, with as
much facility as lies in my power."_Boughton Mount, July 29, 1826._"

One is sorry to relate, that Mr.Braddick died soon after this
benevolent wish; for he died at the above seat of his, near Maidstone,
in April, 1828, at the age of sixty-three.Dibdin thus speaks of Archibald Alison: "The beautiful
and melodious style of this writer, renders his works deserving of a
conspicuous place in every well-chosen library."Page 89.--In this page I have stated that Dr.Dibdin says, "on many
accounts does G. Markham seem entitled to more notice and commendation."I have given extracts from his "English Husbandman," to shew his love
for flowers.The same attachment is visible where he enumerates them in
his "Country House-wive's Garden."--By the bye, though I have stated
this last work to be his, it surely appears to have been written by W.
Lawson.I merely now give the following extract from Markham's "English
House-Wife:"

"Next vnto this sanctity and holinesse of life, it is meet that our
English hous-wife be a woman of great modesty and temperance as well
inwardly as outwardly; inwardly, as in her behauiour and cariage towards
her husband, wherein she shall shunne all violence of rage, passion, and
humour, coueting lesse to direct then to be directed, appearing euer
vnto him pleasant, amiable, and delightfull, and though occasion,
mishaps, or the misgouernement of his will may induce her to contrary
thoughts, yet vertuously to suppresse them, and with a mild sufferance
rather to call him home from his error, then with the strength of anger
to abate the least sparke of his euill, calling in her mind that euill
and vncomely language is deformed though vttered euen to seruants, but
most monstrous and vgly when it appeares before the presence of a
husband: outwardly, as in her apparrell and diet, both which she shall
proportion according to the competency of her husband's estate and
calling, making her circle rather strait then large, for it is a rule if
we extend to the vttermost, we take away increase, if we goe a hayre
breadth beyond, we enter into consumption: but if we preserue any part,
we build strong forts against the aduersaries of fortune, prouided that
such preseruation be honest and conscionable: for a lauish prodigality
is brutish, so miserable couetuousnesse is hellish.Let therefore the
hus-wives garments be comly and strong, made aswel to preserue the
health, as adorne the person, altogether without toyish garnishes, or
the glosse of light colours, and as far from the vanity of new and
fantastick fashions, as neere to the comly imitations of modest
matrons."I must give an extract from his "Country Contentements," as he reminds
us of Shakspeare's lines on the tuneable cry of hounds; for Markham
dwells on their sweetness of cry--"their deepe solemne mouthes--their
roaring and loud ringing mouthes, which must beare the counter-tenor,
then some hollow plaine sweete mouthes--a deep-mouthed dog--a couple or
two of small singing beagles, which as small trebles, may warble amongst
them: the cry will be a great deale the more sweeter--the hollow deepe
mouth--the loud clanging mouthe--deepe flewed, such as for the most part
your _Shropshire_ and pure _Worcestershire_ dogs are--the louder and
pleasanter your cry will be, especially if it be in sounding tall woods,
or under the echo of rocks--and not above one couple of roarers, which
being heard but now and then, as at the opening or hitting of a scent,
will give much sweetnesse to the solemns, and gravenesse of the cry, and
the musick thereof will bee much more delightfull to the eares of every
beholder."Page 123.--The memory of Pope has perhaps never been more affectionately
honoured (nor that of Lord Mendip, who so zealously preserved every part
of the house and garden at Twickenham) than in the glowing and tender
lines of De Lille, in his poem of _Les Jardins_.The vignette in my title-page, and that at page 84, are two of those
neat decorations which so profusely embellish the Encyclopaedia of
Gardening.A.

   Abercrombie, 153

   Addison, xxviii., xxxii., 49, 115
     ---- reflections on the tombs, 117

   Age of gardeners and horticulturists, 81

   Alison, Dr.xxxviii., 71, 120, 211

   Anderson, 69, 175

   Ardenne, J. P. de, his charity, xiv.Arabian literature, 2

   Argyle, xxviii.Arnauld d'Andelli, xiii.Arnolde's Chronicle, 5

   Astrology, 34

   Austen, Ralph, 18

   Austin, Fr., 19


   B.

   Bacon, Lord, on flowers that perfume the air, xxx., xxxv., 55
     ---- eulogies on him, 88
     ---- on Gorhambury, 88

   Banks, Sir Jos., 4, 181, 187

   Barrington, Daines, 156, 177

   Bates, an aged horticulturist, 82

   Bauhine, 44

   Beale, Dr.John, vi., 16, 17, 20, 21, 54
     ---- his attachment to his native country, 23

   Belosses, Sir H.202

   Bees, on, by an Italian, 85

   Bernazzano, his skill in painting fruit, 56

   Bertholan, xviii.Bertrand, Fr., his _Ruris Deliciae_, xiv.Blake, 19

   Blythe, Walter, 8, 88

   Bobart, 108

   Boileau, tributes to, xxiii.56

   Bonfeil, 19

   Bornefond, x.

   Bos, the eminent painter, 56

   Bossuet, xxv.Boswell, 178

   Boyceau, ix.his kind apostrophe to Lord Byron, 130

   Boyle, his character, by Boerhaave, 21

   Bradley, reprints the _Herefordshire Orchards_, 54
     ---- on the planting of wild flowers, 54

   Braddick, 211

   Bridgman, 129, 132, 135

   Brocoli, 51

   Brocq, P. le, 82

   Brome, W.22

   Browne, Sir Thomas, 94

   Browne, Launcelot, 154

   Bryant, 79

   Brydges, Sir E.89, 93
     ---- on Pope, 131

   Bucknall, 84

   Bulleyn, Dr.84

   Burleigh, xxvii.Barclay's, 170

   Byron, Lord, xxxi.40, 121
     ---- on Pope, 129


   C.

   Capell, xxvii.6, 12, 15, 16

   Chabanon, xiv.185

   Champier, viii.96

   Chatham, Lord, xxix., 74

   Chesterfield, xxix.---- on Pope, 125

   Chesnut tree at Tortworth, 57, 209

   Cicero on agriculture, xxxvi.---- on his country seat, 3

   Clive, 164

   Cobbet, on the health of gardens, xxxiv.---- on Moor Park, 112

   Collins, 59

   Collinson, xxviii.Compton, Bishop, xxviii., 39

   Cook, Captain, xiv., 171, 183

   Cooke, Moses, 31

   Corregio, his poverty, 17, 202

   Cottage gardens, 171

   Cotton, Charles, 102

   Country life, its pleasures, 48, 49, 63

   Coventry, Rev.63, 135

   Cowell, 62

   Cowley, 46, 93, 100

   Cousin, viii.Cowslips, 54, 205

   Cradock, Jos.184


   D.

   Dallaway, 94, 135, 173, 176

   Danby, xxviii.5

   Darwin, 162, 164

   Davy, Sir H.30, 106

   Death, 47, 58

   Deepden, Mr.Hope's, 170

   De Lille, xiv., xvii., 50, 183, 213

   Descartes, his delight in his garden, xxxv.Devonshire, Duke of, xxviii.Dicks, 65

   Dickson, 186

   Dibdin, Dr.Dodsley, Robert, his attachment to Pope, 125
     ---- his generous tribute to Shenstone, 148

   Downton Vale, 188

   Drake, Dr.114, 115, 128

   Drope, 31

   Du Fresnoy, xii.Duncan, 81

   Duncan, Dr.190


   E.

   Elizabeth, the lion hearted, 103

   Ellis, of _Gaddesden_, on blossoms and fruit, 64

   Epicurus, xxxii.Essex, his execution, 103
     ---- his character, xxvii.Etienne, an early French writer, viii.Evelyn, John, xxxii., 41, 59, 97
     ---- Charles, 59
     ---- John, 59


   F.

   Falconer, 183

   Fairchild, 60

   Fleetwood, 114

   Fontaine, xviii.Flowers, 25, 27, 54, 90, 95, 205

   Forsyth, 186

   Foxley, 191

   France, its horticultural writers, see preface

   Francis I., xix.Franklin, rancorously attacked by Wedderburn, and panegyrised by
     Lord Chatham, 73, 74

   Fresnoy, xii.Fruit blossoms, 41, 53, 64, 121

   Fulmer, 79


   G.

   Gainsborough, Earl of, xxix.Gardeners, the age of many, 81

   Gardens, their pleasures, see preface, and 24, 27, 28, 30, 39, 47,
     63, 64, 89, 110, 121, 153
     ---- those of antiquity, 1
     ---- those of the Saxons, Danes and Normans, xxxv., xxxvi.---- near Spitalfields, 36
     ---- of France, see preface
     ---- of cottagers, 171

   Gardiner, J.109

   Garrick, 137, 158, 172, 178, 181

   Garrle, Capt.35

   Garton, 65

   Gerarde, xxx., 15, 87, 123

   Gerard's Bromley, its once noble mansion, 23, 107

   Gerard, Lady, an acquaintance of Pope's, 25

   Gibson, J.67, 210
     ---- on the richness of a fruit garden, 64

   Gilbert, 107

   Gilpin, Rev.159, 173

   Girardin entombed Rousseau in his garden, xv.---- his eloquent effusion to prevent misery, 78
     ---- on the calm of evening, xv.Goldsmith, 199

   Gooche, Barn., 12, 48

   Gouges de Cessieres, xiv.Graves, Dr., his tribute to Shenstone, 149

   Gray, 80, 129, 158, 159

   Greeks, 107, 194

   Grindall, xxviii.Grossetete, Bishop, 201


   H.

   Halifax, xxviii.W., 143

   Hartlib, the friend of Milton, 19
     ---- on orchards, 21

   Harward, 17

   Hawkins, Sir J.8, 102, 103

   Haworth, Mr.on Miller, 141

   Heath, Mr.of Monmouth, 171

   Heeley, 79

   Henry IV.patronised Olivier de Serres and Mollet, xiv.Hereford, its orchards and villages, 23

   Hill, Sir John, 141

   Hitt, 65, 138

   Hogarth, 56

   Hollar, his portraits of the Tradescants, 92

   Homer, xxx., 1, 2, 47, 187

   Housewife, an amiable and pleasant one, 212

   Hudson, Lord, xxvii.Hyll, 85


   I

   Iliffe, 23


   J.

   James, 45

   Jones, of Nayland, 61

   Johnson, the editor of Gerarde, 18
     ---- his testimony to Parkinson, 18

   Jonson, Ben, his eulogy on Lord Bacon, 86

   Johnson, Dr.48, 70, 114, 116, 154, 178, 179
     ---- on portraits, vii.---- on Charles II., 96
     ---- on Sir T. Browne, 95, 96
     ---- on Shenstone, 147

   Johnson's Eng.Gardening, xxxv., xxxvi., xxxvii., 83, 84, 85, 88,
     91, 100, 102, 109, 115, 154,
   177, 183, 201
     ---- on Sir W. Temple, 113
     ---- on Switzer, 209

   Justice, 63, 13


   K.

   Kames, 69, 151

   Kennedy, 78

   Kent, 132

   Knowlton, 52, 61

   Knight, R. P.xxvi., 187
     ---- on the celebration of high mass, 195
     ---- on listening to professors, 196

   Kyle, 79


   L.

   Lamoignon, xxii.Langford, 33

   Langley, 142

   Latapie, xvi.120

   Lawson, 17, 202, 212

   Leibault, viii.Lestiboudois, his tranquil end, 83

   Lesay de Marnesia, xviii.Liger, Louis, x., 42

   Ligne, Prince de, on gardens, xxxiv., 55
     ---- on De Lille, xiv.---- on Antoinette, xxxiv.---- interview with Voltaire, xxxiv.---- on Milton, 132
     ---- on Walpole, 177

   Linant, xiii.Linnaeus, 139, 167, 171, 192

   Locke, 113

   London and Wise, 35

   Louis, xiv., xx.of Gardening, xi., xii., xviii., xix., xx., xxxvi.,
     4, 54, 80, 81, 95, 99, 109, 116, 121, 128, 136, 150, 152, 153, 155,
     157, 170, 184, 194
     ---- on Whateley, 72
     ---- on Bacon, 87
     ---- on Miller, 138
     ---- on L. Browne, 156


   M.

   Maddock, 83

   Maison rustique, viii., 89

   Malherbes, xvi.xv., 78

   Mapes, Walter, the honest chaplain to Henry II.and an admired poet, 170

   Markham, Ger.viii., 88, 211, 213

   Marshall, 79, 117, 150, 157

   Marie Antoinette, xxxiv., 189

   Mary, Queen of Scots, vii., 102

   Martyn, Professor, 185
     ---- his character of Miller, 138

   Mascall, 84

   Mason, Geo.xxix., 70, 156, 198
     ---- on Kent, 134
     ---- on Shenstone, 150

   Mason, Rev.xv., xxxii., 111, 157
     ---- on Pope, 128, 130, 131
     ---- on Shenstone, 150

   Masson de Blamont, xviii.Mathias on Boileau, xxiv.---- on Pope, 127
     ---- on Mason, 164

   Mavor, Rev.34
     ---- his admirable edition of Tusser, 6

   Meader, 17

   Meager, Leonard, 34

   Mignon, his skill in painting flowers, 55

   Miller, Phillip, 138

   Milton, 20, 21, 49, 94, 130, 132, 197
     ---- his great poem now magnificently printing in letters of gold, 133

   Mollet, Andre, ix.Morin, the florist, xi.Mountmorris, on Sir W. Temple, 111

   Morris, Rev.I. G., his powerful appeal on horticultural pursuits, 122

   Morris, onornamental scenery, 77

   Mountain, Didymus, 12


   N.

   Nicol, Walter, 82

   Nichols, John, 54, 60, 110, 121, 143, 174, 178
     ----his friendship for Mr.Cradock, 180

   Notre, le, tributes to him, xi., xii., xx.Nourse, 58


   O.

   Ockenden, 65

   Only, Rev.Mr., a lover of gardens, 54

   Opium, 168

   Orchards, 21, 23, 64, 202, 203

   Orrery, Lord, xxvi., 126


   P.

   Parkinson, 89, 90
     ----testimony to his works, 18

   Pastoral Scenes, 30

   Paulmier de Grenlemesnil, viii.Percy, Bishop of Dromore, 72

   Pennant, 154

   Petrarch, xxxi.Plants betray fondness for their native earth, 45

   Planting, on zeal for, 66, 69

   Platt, Sir Hugh, 13

   Plattes, Gabriel, 16

   Plimley, 165

   Pontchateau, his singular history, xiii.Pope, xxix., xxxiii., 1, 2, 76, 114, 123, 179, 213

   Pope mentions Lady Gerard, 25
     ----his noble thought on planting, 68

   Powel, 65

   Preston, its horticult.society, 123

   Price, Sir U.vii., xxvi., 56, 72, 77, 134, 155, 156, 177, 191
     ----on De Lille, xv.----his high opinion of Mason, 163
     ----on the sculpture, poetry, and eloquence of the Greeks, 194
     ----on Correggio, 202

   Priestley, Dr.on Franklin and Wedderburn, 73

   Primroses, 30, 50, 54, 55

   Pulteney, Dr.5, 52, 55, 56, 60, 85, 87, 90, 92, 138, 143, 182


   Q.

   Quarterly Review, 41, 59, 97, 103, 183
     ----on Evelyn's _Sylva_, 99

   Quintinye, xi., xx., xxvii., 34, 68
     ----anecdote of, 67
     ----attempt to recover his MSS.68


   R.

   Raleigh, xxvii., xxxi., 36, 87

   Rabutin de Bussy, xxii.----on Lamoignon, xxii., xxv.Ray, xxix., 71, 88, 94, 109, 139

   Raynal, 128

   Rea, John, his dedication to Lord Gerard, and verses on Lady Gerard, 23

   Read, 33

   Rench, an aged gardener, 82

   Repton, 186, 188

   Reynolds, Sir J.127, 158

   Richardson, 84

   Rickets, 61

   Riviere, la Countess de, xiii., xiv., xxv.on Mary Queen of Scots, 104

   Roscommon, 48

   Rose, 101

   Rosier, xviii.Rousseau, his burial at Ermenonville, xv.Russell, Lord W. his love of gardens, xxvii.S.

   Salmonia, extracts, from, 30, 107

   Scarborough, xxix.Scott, Sir W. v., 40, 41, 172
     ---- on the deaths of _Marat_, and _Robespierre_, xvi.---- on the garden of _Vanessa_, xxx.Scotland, its zeal for planting, 69

   Serres, Olivier de, viii.de, xii., xiv., xx., xxv.Seward, Miss, vi., 162, 172

   Sismondi, xix., 3, 107
     ---- on bees, 86

   Shakspeare, xi., xxxi, 4, 73, 74, 78, 158, 178, 179, 197, 198, 199, 213

   Sharrock, 23

   Shenstone, 147

   Shepherd, Sir Samuel, 41

   Sherard, xxviii.Spectacle de la Nature, 95

   Speechley, 81

   Smollet on Chatham, xxix.Spring, its beauties, 21, 29, 30, 31, 209

   St.Bartholomew's massacre, viii.Stafford, 62, 210

   Sterne, xxvi., 170

   Stillingfleet, Benj.8, 191

   Stevenson, D.45

   Sully, ix., 66

   Sun, the, its celestial beams, 48

   Swinden, 78

   Switzer, xxvii., xxxiii., 45, 94, 100, 109, 110, 138, 209
     ---- his grateful remembrance of his old master, 36, 39, 102
     ---- his enlarged views of gardening, 49
     ---- on Rose, 102
     ---- on Milton, 133


   T.

   Taverner, 53

   Taylor, 65

   Temperance, 169, 170

   Temple, Sir W.xxxii., 110
     ---- on the garden of Epicurus, xxxii.de, his tribute to Milton, 132
     ---- on gardens, xxxv.Tradescants, 92

   Trowel, 63

   Trees, ancient ones, 33, 46, 49, 50, 57, 142, 151

   Tusser, 6, 13, 34


   V.

   Vaniere, tribute to, xiii.Van-Huysum, his skill in painting fruit, 56, 156

   Villages, rural, 23, 199

   Vineyard at Bethnal-green, 14

   Violets, xxxi., 30, 50, 55, 205

   Vispre, 157

   Voltaire, xi., xiii., xx., xxxiv., 80
     ---- his garden interview with the Prince de Ligne, xxxvi.W.

   Wakefield horticultural soc., 122

   Walpole, Horace, xxix., 1, 80, 91, 163, 176
     ---- on Sir W. Temple, 112
     ---- on Kent, 132
     ---- on Bridgman, 136

   Walpole, Horace, on Browne, 154
     ---- on Gilpin, 173

   Walton, Isaac, xi., 30, 93, 94, 102, 104

   Warton, Thomas, 6, 8, 10, 72, 143, 161

   Watelet, xvii.Watson, Bishop of Llandaff, his zeal for planting, 70

   Watson, Sir W.93, 142

   Weymouth, Lord, xxviii.Weston, 13, 16, 18, 19, 20, 57, 92
     ---- his zeal for planting, 66

   Whately, xvi., xviii., 50, 72
     ---- brief testimonies to his genius, vii., 72, 74, 75, 195
     ---- on spring, 31
     ---- his tribute to Shenstone, 150

   Wildman, 65

   Whitmill, 62

   William III.Worlidge, his attachment to gardens, 28
     ---- on those of France, xxvii.---- mentions a garden at Hoxton, 61

   Wotton, Sir H.93

   Wynn, Sir W. W. his zeal for planting, 69


   X, Y.

   Xenophon, 198

   Young, Dr.on Pope's death, 131





FOOTNOTES:

    *       *       *       *       *


[1] Few persons have shewn more attachment to family portraits than Miss
Seward.This is strongly exemplified in several bequests in her will;
not only in her bequest to Emma Sneyd, and in that to Mrs.Powys, but
also in the following:--"The miniature picture of my late dear friend,
Mr.Saville, drawn in 1770, by the late celebrated artist Smart, and
which at the time it was taken, and during many successive years, was an
exact resemblance of the original, I bequeath to his daughter, Mrs.Smith, who I know will value and preserve it as a jewel above all prize;
and in case of her previous demise, I bequeath the said precious
miniature to her daughter, Mrs.Honora Jager, exhorting the said Honora
Jager, and her heirs, into whose hands soever it may fall, to guard it
with sacred care from the sun and from damp, as I have guarded it, that
so the posterity of my valued friend may know what, in his prime, was
the form of him whose mind through life, by the acknowledgment of all
who knew him, and could discern the superior powers of talent and
virtue, was the seat of liberal endowment, warm piety, and energetic
benevolence."Being thus on the subject of portraits, let me remark, that it is not
always that we meet with a faithful likeness.de
Genlis's _Petrarch et Laure_, justly observes, that "it is doubtful if
any of the portraits of _Petrarch_, which still remain, were painted
during his life-time.However that may be, it is impossible to trace in
them, either the elevation of his mind, the fire of his imagination, or
the pensive melancholy of his soul."In the Essays on Petrarch, by Ugo
Foscolo, he informs us, that "_Petrarch's_ person, if we trust his
biographers, was so striking with beauties, as to attract universal
admiration.They represent him with large and manly features, eyes full
of fire, a blooming complexion, and a countenance that bespoke all the
genius and fancy that shone forth in his works."Do we yet know one
really good likeness of _Mary Queen of Scots_?[2] It has often struck me (perhaps erroneously), that the attachment
which the great Sully evinced for gardens, even to the last period of
his long-protracted life, (eighty-two), _might_ in some degree have been
cherished or increased from the writings of the great Lord Bacon.When
this illustrious duke retired to his country seats, wounded to the heart
by the baseness of those who had flattered him when Henry was alive, his
noble and honest mind indulged in the embellishment of his gardens.I
will very briefly quote what history relates:--"The life he led in his
retreat at _Villebon_, was accompanied with grandeur and even majesty,
such as might be expected from a character so grave and full of dignity
as his.His table was served with taste and magnificence; he admitted to
it none but the nobility in his neighbourhood, some of the principal
gentlemen, and the ladies and maids of honour, who belonged to the
duchess of Sully.He often went into his gardens, and passing through a
little covered alley, which separated the flower from the kitchen
garden, ascended by a stone staircase (which the present duke of Sully
has caused to be destroyed), into a large walk of linden trees, upon a
terrace on the other side of the garden.It was then the taste to have a
great many narrow walks, very closely shaded with four or five rows of
trees, or palisadoes.Here he used to sit upon a settee painted green,
amused himself by beholding on the one side an agreeable landscape, and
on the other a second alley on a terrace extremely beautiful, which
surrounded a large piece of water, and terminated by a wood of lofty
trees.There was scarce one of his estates, those especially which had
castles on them, where he did not leave marks of his magnificence, to
which he was chiefly incited by a principle of charity, and regard to
the public good.At _Rosny_, he raised that fine terrace, which runs
along the Seine, to a prodigious extent, and those great gardens, filled
with groves, arbours, and grottos, with water-works.He embellished
_Sully_ with gardens, of which the plants were the finest in the world,
and with a canal, supplied with fresh water by the little river Sangle,
which he turned that way, and which is afterwards lost in the Loire.He
erected a machine to convey the water to all the basons and fountains,
of which the gardens are full.He enlarged the castle of _La Chapelle
d'Angillon_, and embellished it with gardens and terraces."These gardens somewhat remind one of these lines, quoted by Barnaby
Gooche:

   _Have fountaines sweet at hand, or mossie waters,
   Or pleasaunt brooke, that passing through the meads, is sweetly seene._

That fine gardens delighted Sully, is evident even from his own
statement of his visit to the Duke d'Aumale's, at Anet, near Ivry,
(where Henry and Sully fought in that famous battle), for he says,--"Joy
animated the countenance of Madame d'Aumale the moment she perceived me.She gave me a most kind and friendly reception, took me by the hand, and
led me through those fine galleries and beautiful gardens, which make
Anet a most enchanting place."One may justly apply to Sully, what he
himself applies to the Bishop of Evreaux: "A man for whom eloquence and
great sentiments had powerful charms."I had designed some few years ago, to have published a Review of some of
the superb Gardens in France, during the reign of Henry IV.and during
the succeeding reigns, till the demise of Louis XV., embellished with
plates of some of the costly and magnificent decorations of those times;
with extracts from such of their eminent writers whose letters or works
may have occasionally dwelt on gardens.--My motto, for want of a better,
might have been these two lines from Rapin,

   _----France, in all her rural pomp appears
   With numerous gardens stored._

Perhaps I might have been so greedy and insolent, as to have presumed to
have monopolized our Shakspeare's line,--"I love _France_ so well, that
I will not part with a village of it; I will have it all mine."Isaac Walton gives the following lines from a translation of a German
poet, which makes one equally fond of England:

   We saw so many woods, and princely bowers,
   Sweet fields, brave palaces, and stately towers,
   _So many gardens dress'd with curious care_,
   That Thames with royal Tiber may compare.[3] The Encyclopaedia of Gardening has a rich page (35) devoted to Le
Notre.thus records his genius and his grand and
magnificent efforts:--"Ce grand homme fut choisi pour decorer les
jardins du chateau de Vau-le-Vicomte.Il en fit un sejour enchanteur,
par les ornamens nouveaux, pleins de magnificence, qu'il y prodigua.On
vit alors, pour la premiere fois, des portiques, des berceaux, des
grottes, des traillages, des labyrinths, &c. embellir varier le
spectacle des jardins.Le Roi, temoin des ces merveilles, lui donna la
direction de tous ses parcs.Il embellit par son art, Versailles,
Trianon, et il fit a St.Germain cette fameuse terrasse qu'on voit
toujours avec une nouvelle admiration.Les jardins de Clagny, de
Chantilly, de St.Cloud, de Meudon, de Sceaux, le parterre du Tibre, et
les canaux qui ornent ce lieu champetre a Fontainbleau, sont encore son
ouvrage.Il demanda a faire voyage de l'Italie, dans l'esperance
d'acquerir de nouvelles connoissances; mais son genie createur l'avoit
conduit a la perfection.Il ne vit rien de comparable a ce qu'il avoit
fait en France."Notwithstanding the above just and high tribute, I have no hesitation in
saying, that it is not superior to the magic picture which the
fascinating pen of Mad.de Sevigne has drawn of le Notre's creative
genius, in her letter of Aug.Many others of this charming
woman's letters breathe her love of gardens.[4] The Nouveau Dict.thus speaks of the Pere Rapin:--"A un genie
heureux, a un gout sur, il joignoit une probite exacte, un coeur droit,
un caractere aimable et des moeurs douces.Il etoit naturellement
honnete, et il s'etoit encore poli dans le commerce des grands.Parmi
ses differentes Poesies Latines, on distingue le Poeme des Jardins.C'est son chef d'oeuvre; il est digne du siecle d'Auguste, dit l'Abbe
Des Fontaines, pour l'elegance et la purete du langage, pour l'esprit et
les graces qui y regnent."Among the letters of Rabutin de Bussy, are
many most interesting ones from this worthy father.[5] "Rien n'est plus admirable que la peinture naive que la Pere Vaniere
fait des amusemens champetres; on est egalement enchante de la richesse
et de la vivacite de son imagination, de l'eclat et de l'harmonie de sa
poesie, du choix de la purete de ses expressions.Il mourut a Toulouse
en 1739, et plusiers poetes ornerent de fleurs son tombeau."--Nouv.[6] La Comtesse de la Riviere, thus alludes to this convent: "Madame de
Sevigne a pour ce monastere une veneration qui est audela de toute
expression; elle assure qu'on n'approche pas de ce lieu sans sentir au
dedans de soi une onction divine."[7] The late Sir U. Price, pays a very high compliment to this exquisite
poem, in p.i. of his Essays, terming it full of the justest
taste, and most brilliant imagery.[8] In the Earl of Harcourt's garden, at Nuneham, in Oxfordshire, (laid
out in some parts under the eye and fine taste of the poet Mason), on a
bust of Rousseau are these lines:

   Say, is thy honest heart to virtue warm?Approach, behold this venerable form;
     'Tis Rousseau!There are attractive pages in this little volume of the Viscount's,
which would have interested either Shenstone, or Gainsborough,
particularly the pages 59, 143, 145, and 146, (of Mr.Malthus's
translation), for in these pages "we feel all the truth and energy of
nature."131, will enable the reader to judge of
the writer's style:--"When the cool evening sheds her soft and
delightful tints, and leads on the hours of pleasure and repose, then is
the universal reign of sublime harmony.It is at this happy moment that
Claude has caught the tender colouring, the enchanting calm, which
equally attaches the heart and the eyes; it is then that the fancy
wanders with tranquillity over distant scenes.Masses of trees through
which the light penetrates, and under whose foliage winds a pleasant
path; meadows, whose mild verdure is still softened by the transparent
shades of the evening; crystal waters which reflect all the near objects
in their pure surface; mellow tints, and distances of blue vapour; such
are in general the objects best suited to a western exposure.The sun,
before he leaves the horizon, seems to blend earth and sky, and it is
from sky that evening views receive their greatest beauty.The
imagination dwells with delight upon the exquisite variety of soft and
pleasing colours, which embellishes the clouds and the distant country,
in this peaceful hour of enjoyment and contemplation."[9] He was enthusiastically devoted to the cultivation of his gardens,
which exhibited enchanting scenery, umbrageous walks, and magnificent
water-falls.When thus breathing the pure air of rural life, the
blood-stained monsters of 1793 seized him in his garden, and led him to
the scaffold."He heard unmoved his own sentence, but the condemnation
of his daughter and grand-daughter, tore his heart: the thought of
seeing two weak and helpless creatures perish, shook his fortitude.Being taken back to the _Conciergerie_, his courage returned, and he
exhorted his children to prepare for death.When the fatal bell rung, he
recovered all his wonted cheerfulness; having paid to nature the tribute
of feeling, he desired to give his children an example of magnanimity;
his looks exhibited the sublime serenity of virtue, and taught them to
view death undismayed.When he ascended the cart, he conversed with his
children, unaffected by the clamours of the ferocious populace; and on
arriving at the foot of the scaffold, took a last and solemn farewell of
his children; immediately after he was dismissed into eternity."Sir Walter Scott, after noticing "the wild and squalid features" of
Marat, who "lay concealed in some obscure garret or cellar, among his
cut-throats, until a storm appeared, when, like a bird of ill omen, his
death-screech was again heard," thus states the death of another of the
murderers of the Malherbes:--"Robespierre, in an unsuccessful attempt to
shoot himself, had only inflicted a horrible _fracture on his
under-jaw_.In this situation they were found like wolves in their lair,
foul with blood, mutilated, despairing, and yet not able to die.Robespierre lay on a table in an anti-room, his head supported by a deal
box, and his hideous countenance half-hidden by a bloody and dirty cloth
bound round his shattered chin.As the fatal cars passed to the
guillotine, those who filled them, but especially Robespierre, were
overwhelmed with execrations.The nature of his previous wound, from
which the cloth had never been removed till the executioner _tore_ it
off, added to the torture of the sufferer.The shattered jaw dropped,
and the wretch yelled aloud, to the horror of the spectators.A mask
taken from that dreadful head was long exhibited in different nations of
Europe, and appalled the spectator by its ugliness, and the mixture of
fiendish expression with that of bodily agony."Malherbes loved to relate an answer made to him by a common
fellow, during his stay at Paris, when he was obliged to go four times
every day to the prison of the Temple, to attend the king: his extreme
age did not allow him to walk, and he was compelled to take a carriage.One day, particularly, when the weather was intensely severe, he
perceived, on coming out of the vehicle, that the driver was benumbed
with cold."My friend," said Malherbes to him, in his naturally tender
manner, "you must be penetrated by the cold, and I am really sorry to
take you abroad in this bitter season."--"That's nothing, M. de
Malherbes; in such a cause as this, I'd travel to the world's end
without complaining."--"Yes, but your poor horses could not."--"Sir,"
replied the honest coachman, "_my horses think as I do_."[10] I cannot pass by the name of Henry, without the recollection of
what an historian says of him: "L'Abbe Langlet du Fresnoy a publie
cinquante-neuf lettres de a bon Roi, dans sa nouvelle edition du Journal
de Henry III.on y remarque du feu de l'esprit, de l'imagination, et
sur-tout cette eloquence du coeur, qui plait tout dans un monarque.--On
l'exortoit a traiter avec rigueur quelques places de la Ligue, qu'il
avoit redites par la force: _La satisfaction qu'on tire de la vengeance
ne dure qu'un moment_ (repondit ce prince genereuse) _mais celle qu'on
tire de la clemence est eternelle_.Plus on connoitre Henri, plus on
l'aimera, plus on l'admiriroet."[11] The king, knowing his fine taste for sculpture and painting, sent
him to Italy, and the Nouv.gives this anecdote: "La Pape
instruit de son merite, voulut le voir, et lui donna une assez longue
audience, sur la fin de laquelle le Notre s'ecria en s'adressant au
Pape: J'ai vu les plus grands hommes du monde, Votre Saintete, et le Roi
mon maitre.Il y a grande difference, dit le Pape; le Roi est un grand
prince victorieux, je suis un pauvre pretre serviteur des serviteurs de
Dieu.Le Notre, charme de cette reponse, oublia qui la lui faisoit, et
frappant sur l'epaule du Pape lui repondit a son tour: Mon Reverend
Pere, vous vous portez bien et vous enterrerez tout la Sacre College.Le
Pape, qui entendoit le Francois, rit du pronostic.Le Notre, charme de
plus en plus de sa bonte, et de l'estime particuliere qu'il temoignoit
pour le Roi, se jeta au cou du Pape et l'embrassa.C'etoit au reste sa
coutume d'embrasser tous ceux qui publioient les louanges de Louis XIV.,
et il embrassoit le Roi lui-meme, toutes les fois que ce prince revenoit
de la campagne."[12] I will conclude by mentioning a justly celebrated man, who, it
seems was not over fond of his garden, though warmly attached both to
Boileau, and to Mad.de Sevigne,--I mean that most eloquent preacher
Bossuet, of whom a biographer, after stating that he was so absorbed in
the study of the ancient fathers of the church, "qu'il ne se permettoit
que des delassemens fort courts.Il ne se promenoit que rarement meme
dans son jardin.Son jardinier lui dit un jour: _Si je plantois des
Saint Augustins, et des Saint Chrysostomes, vous les viendriez voir;
mais pour vos arbres, vous ne vous en souciez guere_."Worlidge, who wrote during part of the reigns of Charles II.judiciously observes, that "the glory of the French
palaces, often represented to our English eyes in sculpture, are adorned
_with their beauteous gardens before them_; which wanting, they would
seem without lustre or grandeur."[14] He was fined L30,000 for having taken a favourite of the king's, in
the very presence chamber, by the nose, for having insulted him, and
afterwards dragging him out of the room.[15] It was to this nobleman, that Addison addressed his elegant and
sublime epistle, after he had surveyed with the eyes and genius of a
classical poet, the monuments and heroic deeds of ancient Rome.[16] Lord Chesterfield thus speaks of this distinguished man:--"His
private life was stained by no vices, nor sullied by any meanness.His
eloquence was of every kind; but his invectives were terrible, and
uttered with such energy of diction and countenance, that he intimidated
those who were the most willing and the best able to encounter him."Sir
W. Chatham Trelawney used to observe of him, that it was impossible for
the members of the side opposed to him in the House of Commons to look
him in the face when he was warmed in debate: he seemed to bid them all
a haughty defiance."For my own part," said Trelawney, "I never dared
cast my eyes towards his, for if I did, _they nailed me to the floor_."Smollet says, that he displayed "such irresistible energy of argument,
and such power of elocution, as struck his hearers with astonishment and
admiration.It flashed like the lightning of heaven against the
ministers and sons of corruption, blasting where it smote, and withering
the nerves of opposition; but his more substantial praise was founded
upon his disinterested integrity, his incorruptible heart, his
unconquerable spirit of independance, and his invariable attachment to
the interest and liberty of his country."Another biographer thus
mentions him:--"His elevated aspect commanded the awe and mute attention
of all who beheld him, whilst a certain grace in his manner, conscious
of all the dignities of his situation, of the solemn scene he acted in,
as well as his own exalted character, seemed to acknowledge and repay
the respect he received; his venerable form, bowed with infirmity and
age, but animated by a mind which nothing could subdue; his spirit
shining through him, arming his eye with lightning, and cloathing his
lips with thunder; or, if milder topics offered, harmonizing his
countenance in smiles, and his voice in softness, for the compass of his
powers was infinite.As no idea was too vast, no imagination too
sublime, for the grandeur and majesty of his manner; so no fancy was too
playful, nor any allusion too comic, for the ease and gaiety with which
he could accommodate to the occasion.But the character of his oratory
was dignity; this presided in every respect, even to his sallies of
pleasantry."[17] Sir Walter Scott's attachment to gardens, breaks out even in his
Life of Swift, where his fond enquiries have discovered the sequestered
and romantic garden of _Vanessa_, at Marley Abbey.[18] So thought Sir W. Raleigh;

   Sweet violets, love's paradise, that spread
     Your gracious odours...
   Upon the gentle wing of some calm-breathing wind,
       That plays amidst the plain.The lines in Twelfth Night we all recollect:

   That strain again;--it had a dying fall:
   O, it came o'er my ear like the sweet south
   That breathes upon a bank of _violets_,
   Stealing and giving odour.That these flowers were the most favourite ones of Shakspeare, there can
be little doubt--Perditta fondly calls them

   ----sweeter than the lids of Juno's eyes
   Or Cytherea's breath.When Petrarch first saw Laura: "elle avail une robe verte, sa coleur
favorite, parsemee de _violettes_, la plus humble des fleurs."--Childe
Harold thus paints this flower:

   The sweetness of the violet's deep blue eyes
   (Kiss'd by the breath of heaven) seems colour'd by its skies.Mary moved to the kitchen.[19] One almost fancies one perceives Lord Bacon's attachment to
gardens, or to rural affairs, even in the speech he made before the
nobility, when first taking his seat in the High Court of Chancery; he
hoped "that these same _brambles_ that _grow_ about justice, of needless
charge and expence, and all manner of exactions, might be rooted out;"
adding also, that immediate and "_fresh_ justice was the _sweetest_."Mason, in a note to his English Garden, after paying a high
compliment to Lord Bacon's picturesque idea of a garden, thus concludes
that note:--"Such, when he descended to matters of more elegance (for,
when we speak of Lord Bacon, to treat of these was to descend,) were the
amazing powers of this universal genius."Pope's delight in gardens, is visible even in the condensed
allusion he makes to them, in a letter to Mr.Digby; "I have been above
a month strolling about in Buckinghamshire and Oxfordshire, from garden
to garden, but still returning to Lord Cobham's, with fresh
satisfaction.I should be sorry to see my Lady Scudamore's, till it has
had the full advantage of Lord Bathurst's improvements."[21] A biographer thus speaks of the Prince de Ligne: "Quand les rois se
reunirent a Vienne en 1814, ils se firent tous un devoir de l'accuellier
avec distinction, et furent enchante de la vivacite de son esprit, et de
son intarissable gaiete, qui malgre ses infirmites et son grand age, ne
l'avoit pasencore abandonne.Ses saillies, et ses bon mots etoient comme
autrefois repetes pour tous."His generous heart thus speaks of the
abused and unfortunate Marie Antoinette:--"The breath of calumny has not
even respected the memory of the loveliest and best of women, of whose
spotless heart and irreproachable conduct, no one can bear stronger
evidence than I. Her soul was as pure as her face was fair; yet neither
virtue nor beauty could save the victim of sanguinary liberty."In
relating this (says his biographer), his voice faultered, and his eyes
were suffused with tears.He thus briefly states, with his usual humour
and vivacity, his conversation with Voltaire as to the garden at Ferney:

_P.de L._--Monsieur, Monsieur, cela doit vous coupe beaucoup, quel
charmant jardin!mon jardinier est un bete: c'est moi meme qui ait fait
tout.[22] Monsieur Thomas, in his eulogy of Descartes says, it should have
been pronounced at the foot of Newton's statue: or rather, Newton
himself should have been his panegyrist.Of this eulogy, Voltaire, in a
most handsome letter to Mons.Thomas, thus speaks:--"votre ouvrage
m'enchante d'un bout a l'autre, et Je vais le relire des que J'aurai
dicte ma lettre."The sleep and expanding of flowers are most
interestingly reviewed by Mr.187 of his Encyclop., and by
M. V. H. de Thury, in the above discourse, a few pages preceding his
seducing description of the magnificent garden of M. de Boursault.So late ago as the year 1804 it was proposed at Avignon, to erect an
obelisk in memory of Petrarch, at Vaucluse: "il a ete decide, qu'on
l'elevera, vis-avis _l'ancien jardin_ de Petrache, lieu ou le lit de
sorgue forme un angle."Walpole observes) was planted by the poet,
enriched by him with the fairy gift of eternal summer.Pope thus mentions the vines round this cave:--

   Depending vines the shelving cavern skreen,
   With purple clusters blushing through the green.are devoted to a very
interesting research on the gardens of the Romans.Sir Joseph Banks has
a paper on the Forcing Houses of the Romans, with a list of Fruits
cultivated by them, now in our gardens, in vol.Pulteney gives a list of several manuscripts in the Bodleian
Library, the writers of which are unknown, and the dates not precisely
determined, but supposed to have been written, if not prior to the
invention of printing, at least before the introduction of that art into
England.I select the two following.--

No.De Arboribus, Aromatis, et _Floribus_.Glossarium Latino-anglicum Arborum, _Fructuum_, Frugam, &c.

And he states the following from Bib.S. Petri Cant:--

No.Notabilia de Vegetabilibus, et Plantis.Pulteney observes, that the above list might have been considerably
extended, but that it would have unnecessarily swelled the article he
was then writing.mentions a personage whose attachment to his
garden, and one of whose motives for cultivating that garden, does not
deserve a notice:--"Attale III.Roi de Pergame, fils de Stratonice,
soulla la throne en repandant le sang de ses amis et de sea parens.Il
abandonna ensuite le soin de ses affaires _pour s'occuper entirement de
son jardin_.Il y cultivoit des poisons, tels que l'aconit et la cigue,
qu'il envoyoit quelque fois en present a ses amis.Il mourut 133 ans
avant Jesus Christ."[27] To have completed the various contrasting vicissitudes of this poor
_Suffolk_ farmer's life, he should have added to his other employments,
those of another _Suffolk_ man, the late W. Lomax, who had been
_grave-digger_ at the pleasant town of Bury St.Edmund's, for thirty-six
years, and who, also, for a longer period than thirty-six years, had
been a _morrice-dancer_ at all the elections for that borough.[28] Gerarde, speaking of good sorts of apples and pears, thus mentions
the above named _Pointer_:--"Master Richard Pointer has them all growing
in his ground at Twickenham, near London, who is a most cunning and
curious grafter and planter of all manner of rare fruits; and also in
the ground of an excellent grafter and painful planter, Master Henry
Bunbury, of Touthil-street, near unto Westminster; and likewise in the
ground of a diligent and most affectionate lover of plants, Master
Warner, neere Horsely Down, by London; and in divers other grounds about
London."[29] The fate of this poor man reminds one of what is related of
Corregio:--"He received from the mean canons of Parma, for his
Assumption of the Virgin, the small pittance of two hundred livres, and
it was paid him in copper.He hastened with the money to his starving
family; but as he had six or eight miles to travel from Parma, the
weight of his burden, and the heat of the climate, added to the
oppression of his breaking heart, a pleurisy attacked him, which, in
three days, terminated his existence and his sorrows in his fortieth
year."If one could discover a portrait of either of the authors mentioned in
the foregoing list, one might, I think, inscribe under each of such
portraits, these verses:

   Ce pourtrait et maint liure
   Par le peintre et l'escrit,
   Feront reuoir et viure
   Ta face et ton esprit.They are inscribed under an ancient portrait, done in 1555, which Mr.Dibdin has preserved in his account of Caen, and which he thus
introduces: "As we love to be made acquainted with the _persons_ of
those from whom we have received instruction and pleasure, so take,
gentle reader, a representation of Bourgueville."John Parkinson, an apothecary of this city, (yet living, and
labouring for the common good,) in the year 1629, set forth a work by
the name of _Paradisus Terrestris_, wherein he gives the figures of all
such plants as are preserved in gardens, for the beauty of their
flowers, in use in meats or sauces; and also an orchard for all trees
bearing fruit, and such shrubs as for their beauty are kept in orchards
and gardens, with the ordering, planting, and preserving of all these.In this work he hath not superficially handled these things, but
accurately descended to the very varieties in each species, wherefore I
have now and then referred my reader, addicted to these delights, to
this work, especially in flowers and fruits, wherein I was loth to spend
too much time, especially seeing I could adde nothing to what he had
done upon that subject before."Hartlib (says Worlidge) tells you of the benefits of _orchard
fruits_, that they afford curious walks for pleasure, food for cattle in
the spring, summer, and winter, (meaning under their shadow,) fewel for
the fire, shade for the heat, physick for the sick, refreshment for the
sound, plenty of food for man, and that not of the worst, and drink also
of the best."Milton also in the above Tractate thus speaks:--"In those vernal seasons
of the year, when the air is calm and pleasant, it were an injury and
sullenness against nature, not to go out and see her riches, and partake
in her rejoicing with heaven and earth."[32] In the above tract of Dr.Beale's, he thus breaks out in praise of
the Orchards of this _deep and rich_ county:--"From the greatest person
to the poorest cottager, all habitations are encompassed with orchards,
and gardens, and in most places our hedges are enriched with rows of
fruit trees, pears or apples.All our villages, and generally all our
highways, (all our vales being thick set with rows of villages), are in
the spring time sweetened and beautified with the blossomed trees, which
continue their changeable varieties of ornament, till (in the end of
autumn), they fill our garners with pleasant fruit, and our cellars with
rich and winy liquors.Orchards, being the pride of our county, do not
only sweeten, but also purify the ambient air, which I conceive to
conduce very much to the constant health and long lives for which our
county hath always been famous.We do commonly devise a shadowy walk
from our gardens, through our orchards (which is the richest, sweetest,
and most embellished grove) into our coppice woods, or timber woods."Beale does not praise the whole of their land.He describes some as
"starvy, chapt, and cheany, as the basest land upon the Welch
mountains."He makes amends, however, for this, for he describes the
nags bred on their high grounds, as very different from our present
hackney-coach horses; they "are airey and sinewy, full of spirits and
vigour, in shape like the _barbe_, they rid ground, and gather courage
and delight in their own speed."[33] A Lady Gerard is mentioned in two letters of Mr.Pope, to W.
Fortescue, Esq.They appear in Polwhele's
History of Devonshire."I have just received a note from Mrs.Blount,
that she and Lady Gerard will dine here to-day."And "Lady Gerard was to
see Chiswick Gardens (as I imagined) and therefore forced to go from
hence by five; it was a mortification to Mrs.Blount to go, when there
was a hope of seeing you and Mr.There are three more
letters, without date, to Martha Blount, written from the Wells at
Bristol, and from Stowe, in which Pope says, "I have no more room but to
give Lady Gerard my hearty services."And "once more my services to Lady
Gerard.""I desire you will write a post-letter to my man John, at what
time you would have the pine apples, to send to Lady Gerard."Probably
Martha Blount's Lady Gerard was a descendant of Rea's.[34] A most curious account of the _Tulipomania_, or rage for tulips,
formerly in Holland, may be seen in Phillips's Flora Historica.[35] Perhaps no one more truly painted rich pastoral scenes than Isaac
Walton.This occurs in many, many pages of his delightful _Angler_.The
late ardently gifted, and most justly lamented Sir Humphry Davy too, in
his _Salmonia_, has fondly caught the charms of Walton's pages.His pen
riots in the wild, the beautiful, the sweet, delicious scenery of
nature:--"how delightful in the early spring, to wander forth by some
clear stream, to see the leaf bursting from the purple bud, to scent the
odours of the bank, perfumed by the violet, and enamelled as it were
with the primrose, and the daisy; to wander upon the fresh turf below
the shade of trees, whose bright blossoms are filled with the music of
the bee."Worlidge, in his Systema Agriculturae, says, that the
delights in angling "rouzes up the ingenious early in the spring
mornings, that they have the benefit of the sweet and pleasant morning
air, which many through sluggishness enjoy not; so that health (the
greatest treasure that mortals enjoy) and pleasure, go hand in hand in
this exercise.What can be more said of it, than that the most
ingenious, most use it."Whately, in his usual charming style, thus
paints the spring:--"Whatever tends to animate the scene, accords with
the season, which is full of youth and vigour, fresh and sprightly,
brightened by the verdure of the herbage, and the woods, gay with
blossoms, and flowers, and enlivened by the songs of the birds in all
their variety, from the rude joy of the skylark, to the delicacy of the
nightingale."[36] Tusser seems somewhat of Meager's opinion:--

   Sow peason and beans, in the wane of the moon,
   Who soweth them sooner, he soweth too soon;
   That they with the planet may rest and arise,
   And flourish, with bearing most plentifull wise.The celebrated Quintinye says, "I solemnly declare, that after a
diligent observation of the moon's changes for thirty years together,
and an enquiry whether they had any influence in gardening, the
affirmative of which has been so long established among us, I perceive
it was no weightier than old wives' tales."Mavor) having an influence on the tides and the
weather, she was formerly supposed to extend her power over all nature.There is a treatise, by _Claude Gadrois_, on the _Influences des
Astres_.Surely this merits perusal, when the Nouv.thus
speaks of him:--"Il etoit ami du celebre Arnauld et meritoit de l'etre
par _la justesse de son esprit_ et la purete de ses moeurs, par la bonte
de son caractere et par la droiture de son coeur."The following wise experiment occurs in an ancient book on husbandry;
but if the two parties there mentioned had lived with Leonard Meager,
one must not do him the injustice of supposing he would have been a
convert to their opinion:--"_Archibius_ is said to have written (or sent
word most likely) to _Antiochus_, king of _Syria_, that if you bury a
speckled toad inclosed in an earthen pot, in the middle of your garden,
the same will be defended from all hurtful weather and tempests."Meager, however, is kept in countenance by Mr.Worlidge, who, in his
chapter of Prognostics, at the end of his interesting Systemae
Agriculturae, actually states that

If dog's guts rumble and make a noise, it presageth rain or snow.The cat, by washing her face, and putting her foot over her ear,
foreshews rain.The squeaking and skipping up and down of mice and rats, portend rain.Leonard Meager thus notices a nurseryman of his day:--"Here follows a
catalogue of divers sorts of fruits, which I had of my very loving
friend, Captain Garrle, dwelling at the great nursery between
Spittlefields and Whitechapel; a very eminent and ingenious nurseryman."Perhaps this is the same nurseryman that Rea, in his _Pomona_, mentions.He says (after naming some excellent pear-trees) "they may be had out of
the nurseries about London, especially those of Mr.Leonard _Girle_, who will faithfully furnish such as desire these,
or any other kinds of rare fruit-trees, of whose fidelity in the
delivery of right kinds, I have had long experience in divers
particulars, a virtue not common to men of that profession."At this
period, the space between Spittlefields and Whitechapel, must have
consisted of gardens, and perhaps superb country houses.The Earl of
Devonshire had a fine house and garden near Petticoat-lane.Sir W.
Raleigh had one near Mile-end.Some one (I forget the author) says, "On
both sides of this lane (Petticoat-lane) were anciently hedges and rows
of elm trees, and the pleasantness of the neighbouring fields induced
several gentlemen to build their houses here; among whom was the Spanish
Ambassador, whom Strype supposes was Gondamour."Gondamour was the
person to please whom (or rather that James might the more easily marry
his son Charles to one of the daughters of Spain, with her immense
fortune) this weak monarch was urged to sacrifice the life of Raleigh.Within one's own memory, it is painful to reflect, on the many pleasant
fields, neat paddocks, rural walks, and gardens, (breathing pure air)
that surrounded this metropolis for miles, and miles, and which are now
ill exchanged for an immense number of new streets, many of them the
receptacles only of smoke and unhealthiness.[37] These lines are from him, at whose death (says Sir W. Scott in his
generous and glowing eulogy) we were stunned "by one of those
death-notes which are peeled at intervals, as from an archangel's
trumpet"--they are from "that mighty genius which walked amongst men as
something superior to ordinary mortality, and whose powers were beheld
with wonder, and something approaching to terror, as if we knew not
whether they were of good or evil"--they are from "that noble tree which
will never more bear fruit, or blossom!which has been cut down in its
strength, and the past is all that remains to us of Byron: whose
excellences will _now_ be universally acknowledged, and his faults (let
us hope and believe) not remembered in his epitaph."His "deep
transported mind" (to apply Milton's words to him) thus continues his
moralization:--

   What are the hopes of man?old Egypt's king
     CHEOPS, erected the first pyramid,
   And largest; thinking it was just the thing
     To keep his memory whole, and mummy hid;



   But somebody or other rummaging,
     Burglariously broke his coffin's lid:
   Let not a monument give you, or me, hopes,
   Since not a pinch of dust remains of CHEOPS.The Quarterly Review, in reviewing Light's Travels, observes, that
"Cheops employed three hundred and sixty thousand of his subjects for
twenty years in raising this pyramid, or pile of stones, equal in weight
to six millions of tons; and to render his precious dust more secure,
the narrow chamber was made accessible only by small intricate passages,
obstructed by stones of an enormous weight, and so carefully closed,
externally, as not to be perceptible.Yet how vain are all the
precautions of man!Not a bone was left of Cheops, either in the stone
coffin, or in the vault, when Shaw entered the gloomy chamber."Sir
Walter Scott himself, has justly received many eulogies.Perhaps none
more heart-felt, than the effusion delivered at a late Celtic meeting,
by that eloquent and honest lawyer, the present Lord Chief Justice of
the Court of Exchequer, in Scotland, which was received by long, loud,
and continued applause.[38] John Bauhine wrote a Treatise in 1591, De Plantis a Divis sanctisve
nomen habentibus.has this observation: "Plants, when
taken from the places whence they derive their extraction, and planted
in others of different qualities, _betray such fondness for their native
earth_, that with great difficulty they are brought to thrive in
another; and in this it is that the florist's art consists; for _to
humour each plant_ with the soil, the sun, the shade, the degrees of
dryness or moisture, and the neighbourhood it delights in, (for there is
a natural antipathy between some plants, insomuch that they will not
thrive near one another) are things not easily attainable, but by a
length of study and application."[39] What these ruffles and lashes were, I know not.Perhaps the words
of Johnson may apply to them:--

   Fate never wounds more deep the generous heart,
   Than when a blockhead's insult points the dart.This mournful truth is every where confess'd,
   Slow rises worth, by poverty oppress'd.[40] Barnaby Gooche, in his Chapter on Gardens, calls the sun "the
captaine and authour of the other lights, _the very soule of the
world_."[41] A translation of De Lille's garden thus pleads:--

   Oh!by those shades, beneath whose evening bowers
   The village dancers tripp'd the frolic hours;
   By those deep tufts that show'd your fathers' tombs,
   Spare, ye profane, their venerable glooms!To violate their sacred age, beware,
   Which e'en the awe-struck hand of time doth spare.Whateley observes, that "The whole range of nature is open to
him, (the landscape gardener) from the parterre to the forest; and
whatever is agreeable to the senses, or the imagination, he may
appropriate to the spot he is to improve; it is a part of his business
to collect into one place, the delights which are generally dispersed
through different species of country."[43] At page 24 he says, "_Cato_, one of the most celebrated writers on
Husbandry and Gardening among the Romans, (who, as appears by his
Introduction, took the model of his precepts from the _Greeks_) in his
excellent Treatise _De Re Rustica_, has given so great an encomium on
the excellence and uses of this good plant, (the Brocoli) not only as to
its goodness in eating, but also in physick and pharmacy, that makes it
esteemed one of the best plants either the field or garden produces."[44] His Chapter on the Water-Works of the Ancient Romans, French, &c.
is charmingly written.Those who delight in the formation of rivers,
fountains, falls of water, or cascades, as decorations to their gardens,
may inspect this ingenious man's Hydrostatics.And another specimen of
his genius may be seen in the magnificent iron gateway now remaining at
_Leeswood_, near Mold, and of which a print is given in Pugh's _Cambria
Depicta_.[45] In this volume is a letter written to Switzer, from his "ingenious
friend Mr.Thomas Knowlton, Gardener to the Earl of Burlington, who, on
account of his own industry, and the opportunity he has had of being
educated under the late learned Dr.Sherrard, claims a very advanced
place in the list of Botanists."This letter is dated Lansborough, July,
1728.I insert part of this letter:--"I hope, Sir, you will excuse the
freedom I take in giving you my opinion, having always had a respect for
your endeavours in Husbandry and Gardening, ever since you commenced an
author.Your introduction to, and manner of handling those beloved
subjects, (the sale of which I have endeavoured to promote) is in great
esteem with me; being (as I think) the most useful of any that have been
wrote on these useful subjects.If on any subject, you shall hereafter
revise or write farther upon, any communication of mine will be useful
or serviceable to you, I shall be very ready to do it.I heartily wish
you success in whatever you undertake, as it tends to a publick good."Pulteney says of Knowlton, "His zeal for English Botany was
uncommonly great, and recommended him successfully to the learned
Botanists of this country.From Sir Hans Sloane, he received eminent
civilities."[46] few short notices occur of names formerly eminent in
gardening:--"My late ingenious and laborious friend, Mr._Oram_,
Nurseryman, of Brompton-lane.""That great virtuoso and encourager of gardening, Mr."Their beautiful aspects in pots, (the nonpareil) and the middle of a
desert, has been the glory of one of the most generous encouragers of
gardening this age has produced, I mean the Right Honourable the Lord
Castlemain.""The late noble and most publick spirited encourager of arts and
sciences, especially gardening, his Grace the Duke of Montague, at
Ditton.""The Elrouge Nectarine is also a native of our own, the name being the
reverse of _Gourle_, a famous Nurseryman at Hogsden, in King Charles the
Second's time, by whom it was raised."And speaking of the successful cultivation of vines in the open air, he
refers to the garden of a Mr._Rigaud_, near _Swallow-street_; and to
another great cultivator of the vine, "of whose friendship I have proof,
the Rev._Only_, of _Cottesmore_, in Rutland, some time since
deceased; one of the most curious lovers of gardening that this or any
other age has produced."This gentleman, in 1765, published "An Account
of the care taken in most civilized nations for the relief of the poor,
more particularly in the time of scarcity and distress;" 4to.I believe the same gentleman also published, in 1765, a Treatise "Of the
Price of Wheat."[47] Lord Bacon says, "Because the breath of flowers is far sweeter in
the air (where it comes and goes, like the warbling of musick) than in
the hand, therefore nothing is more fit for that delight, than to know
what be the flowers and plants that do best perfume the air."The Prince
de Ligne says,

   Je ne veux point avoir l'orgueilleuse tulipe;
   _L'odorat en jardin_ est mon premier principe.The translation of _Spectacle de la Nature_, a very pleasing work,
observes that "Flowers are not only intended to beautify the earth with
their shining colours, but the greatest part of them, in order to render
the entertainment more exquisite, diffuse a fragrance that perfumes all
the air around us; and it should seem as if they were solicitous to
_reserve their odours for the evening and morn_, when walking is most
agreeable; but their sweets are very faint during the heat of the day,
when we visit them the least."I must again trespass on the pages of the great Bacon, by briefly
shewing the _natural wildness_ he wishes to introduce into one part of
his garden:--"thickets, made only of sweet-briar and honeysuckle, and
some wild vine amongst, and the ground set with violets, strawberries,
and primroses; for these are sweet, and prosper in the shade."The dew or pearly drops that one sees in a morning on cowslips, remind
one of what is said of Mignon:--"Ses ouvrages sont precieux par l'art
avec le quel il representoit les fleurs dans tout leur eclat, et les
fruits avec toute leur fraicheur.La rosee et les goutes d'eau qu'elle
repand sur les fleurs, sont si bien imitees dans ses tableaux, qu'on est
tente d'y porter la main."It is said also that in the works of
Van-Huysum, "le veloute des fruits, l'eclat des fleurs, le transparent
de la rosee, tout enchante dans les tableaux de ce peintre admirable."Sir U. Price observes of this latter painter, "that nature herself is
hardly more soft and delicate in her most delicate productions, than the
copies of them by Van-Huysum."Two flower pieces by this painter, sold
at the Houghton sale for 1200_l._

In the pieces of _Bos_, a Flemish painter, the dew was represented so
much like nature, as to deserve universal approbation.Bernazzano painted strawberries on a wall so naturally, that, we are
told, the plaster was torn down by the frequent pecking of peacocks.Amidst these celebrated painters, these admiring judges of nature, let
us not forget our never-dying Hogarth; his piercing eye even discovers
itself in his letter to Mr.Ellis, the naturalist:--"As for your pretty
little seed cups, or vases, they are a sweet confirmation of the
pleasure nature seems to take in superadding an elegance of form to most
of her works, wherever you find them.How poor and bungling are all the
inventions of art!"[48] The very numerous works of this indefatigable writer, embracing so
many subjects, make one think he must have been as careful of his time,
as the celebrated friend of the witty _Boileau_: the humane, benevolent,
and dignified Chancellor _Aguesseau_, who finding that his wife always
kept him waiting an hour after the dinner bell had rung, resolved to
devote this time to writing a work on Jurisprudence.He put this project
in execution, and in the course of time, produced a quarto work in four
thick volumes.[49] This chesnut tree is thus noticed in a newspaper of August,
1829:--"The celebrated chesnut tree, the property of Lord Ducie, at
Tortworth, in the county of Gloucester, is the oldest, if not the
largest tree in England, having this year attained the age of 1002
years, and being 52 feet in circumference, and yet retains so much
vigour, that it bore nuts so lately as two years ago, from which young
trees are now being raised."published in 1717, called the "Lady's Recreation,"
by _Charles_ Evelyn, Esq.There are two letters subjoined, written to
this author by the Rev.From page 103, 105, 129 and 141,
one should think this was not the son of the famous Mr.Lawrence, in the Preface to his Kalendar, inserted at the
end of his fifth edition, assures the public, "that the book called the
Lady's Recreation could not be published by my approbation, because it
was never seen by me till it was in print; besides, I have reason to
think it was an artifice of the booksellers to impose upon the world,
under the borrowed name of Evelyn."[51] This sermon was preached for several years by Dr.Colin Milne, by
whom it was published in 1799, and afterwards by the Rev.Ellis, of
Merchant Taylors' School.Ellis, in his History of Shoreditch, gives
us much information as to this bequest; in which the handsome conduct of
Mr.Denne, a former vicar, is not the least interesting.of his Literary Anecdotes, bears testimony to Dr.Denne's
feeling towards the poor and distressed, and to his attachment to
literary pursuits.Three of these Sermons are in the second volume of
"Thirty Sermons on Moral and Religious Subjects, by the Rev.W. Jones, of Nayland, his Theological, Philosophical,
and Miscellaneous Works, with Life, 12 vols._neat_, 7_l._ 7_s._
6_d._ 1801.William Jones, of Nayland, Suffolk:
Chaplain to the Right Rev.George Horne, Bishop of Norwich; 1 vol.with Portrait of the Author, price 12_s._ Dove, St.John's Square,
Printer, 1828."Of this faithful servant of God, (the Rev.W. Jones) I
can speak both from personal knowledge and from his writings.He was a
man of quick penetration, of extensive learning, and the soundest piety;
and he had, beyond any other man I ever knew, the talent of writing upon
the deepest subjects to the plainest understandings."--_Bishop Horsley's
Charges._ The Rev.Samuel Ayscough, of the British Museum, began, in
1790, to preach this annual sermon, and, I believe, continued it for
fourteen years.Ellis, of _Little Gaddesden_, in his Practical Farmer, 8vo.1732, thus speaks on this subject:--"What a charming sight is a large
tree in blossom, and after that, when loaden with fruit, enough perhaps
to make a hogshead of cyder or perry!A scene of beauty, hopes, and
profit, and all!It may be on less than two feet diameter of ground.And
above all, what matter of contemplation does it afford, when we let our
thoughts descend to a single kernel of an apple or pear?And again, how
heightened, on the beholding so great a bulk raised and preserved, by
Omnipotent Power, from so small a body."[53] The thought of planting the sides of public roads, was first
suggested by the great _Sully_.Weston, in his introduction to these Tracts, seems to have
pleasure in recording the following anecdote of La Quintinye, from
Harte's Essay."The famous La Quintinie, director of the royal gardens
in France, obtained from Louis XIV.an abbacy for his son, in one of the
remote provinces; and going soon afterwards to make the abbot a visit,
(who was not then settled in his apartments) he was entertained and
lodged by a neighbouring gentleman with great friendliness and
hospitality.La Quintinie, as was natural, soon examined the gardens of
his host; he found the situation beautiful, and the soil excellent; but
every thing was rude, savage, and neglected: nature had done much, art
nothing.The guest, delighted with his friendly reception, took leave
with regret, and some months after, sent one of the king's gardeners,
and four under-gardeners, to the gentleman, with strict command to
accept of no gratuity.They took possession of his little inclosure the
moment they arrived, and having digged it many times over, they manured,
replanted it, and left one of their number behind them, as a settled
servant in the family.This young man was soon solicited to assist the
neighbourhood, and filled their kitchen gardens and fruit gardens with
the _best_ productions of every kind, which are preserved and propagated
to this very hour."_Perrault_, in
his _Hommes Illustres_, has given his Life, and Portrait.Gibson, in
his Fruit Gardener, calls him "truly an original author;" and further
pays him high compliments.thus speaks of him:--"Il vint a Paris se faire
recevoir avocat.Une eloquence naturelle, cultivee avec soin, le fit
briller dans le Barreau, et lui consila l'estime des premiers
magistrais.Quoi qu'il eut peu de temps dont il put disposer, il en
trouvoit neanmoins suffisament pour satisfaire la passion qu'il avoit
pour l'agriculture.Il augmenta ses connoissances sur le jardinage, dans
un voyage qu'il fit en Italie.De retour a Paris, il se livra tout
entier a l'agriculture, et fit un grand nombre d'experiences curieuses
et utiles.Le grand Prince de _Conde_, qui aimoit l'agriculture, prenoit
une extreme plaisir a s'entretenir avec lui; et Charles II.Roi
d'Angleterre lui offrit une pension considerable pour l'attacher a la
culture de ses Jardins, mais il refusa ses offres avantageuses par
l'amour qu'il avoit pour sa patrie, et trouva en France les recompenses
due a son merite.On a de lui un excellent livre, intitule 'Instructions
pour les Jardins Fruitiers et Potagers, Paris, 1725, 2 tom._et
plusieurs Lettres sur la meme matiere_."Switzer, in his History of
Gardening, says, that in Mons.de la Quintinye's "Two Voyages into
England, he gained considerable friendship with several lords with whom
he kept correspondence by letters till his death, and these letters,
says Perrault, are all _printed at London_."And he afterwards says,
speaking of Lord Capel's garden at Kew, "the greatest advance made by
him herein, was the bringing over several sorts of fruits from France;
and this noble lord we may suppose to be one that held for many years a
correspondence with Mons.Such letters on such
correspondence if ever printed, must be worth perusal.[55] Lamoignon de Malherbes (that excellent man) had naturalized a vast
number of foreign trees, and at the age of eighty-four, saw every where,
in France, (as Duleuze observes) plants of his own introduction.The old Earl of _Tweedale_, in the reign of Charles II.and his
immediate successor, planted more than six thousand acres, in Scotland,
with fir trees.In a Tour through Scotland, in 1753, it mentions, that
"The county of Aberdeen is noted for its timber, having in it upwards of
five millions of fir trees, besides vast numbers of other kinds, planted
within these seventy years, by the gentry at and about their seats."Marshall, in his "Planting and Rural Ornament," states, that "In
1792, his Grace the Duke of Athol (we speak from the highest authority)
was possessed of a thousand larch trees, then growing on his estates of
Dunkeld and Blair only, of not less than two to four tons of timber
each; and had, at that time, a million larches, of different sizes,
rising rapidly on his estate."The zeal for planting in Scotland, of late years, has been stimulated by
the writings of James Anderson, and Lord Kames.It is pleasing to transcribe the following paragraph from a newspaper of
the year 1819:--"Sir Watkin Williams Wynn has planted, within the last
five years, on the mountainous lands in the vicinity of Llangollen,
situated from 1200 to 1400 feet above the level of the sea, 80,000 oaks,
63,000 Spanish chesnuts, 102,000 spruce firs, 110,000 Scotch firs,
90,000 larches, 30,000 wych elms, 35,000 mountain elms, 80,000 ash, and
40,000 sycamores, all of which are, at this time, in a healthy and
thriving condition."It is impossible, on this subject, to avoid paying
a grateful respect to the memory of that bright ornament of our church,
and literature, the late Dr.Watson, Bishop of Llandaff, whose extensive
plantations, near Ambleside, have long since enriched that part.The
late Richard Crawshay (surpassed by no being during the whole course of
his very long life, for either integrity or generosity) assured the
present writer, that during an early period of Dr.Watson's planting, he
offered him, on the security of his note of hand only, and to be repaid
at his own entire convenience, ten thousand pounds, and that he (with
grateful thanks to Mr.[56] How widely different has the liberal and classic mind of Dr.Alison
viewed the rich pages of Mr.Whateley, in his deep and learned Essays on
Taste, first published nearly twenty years after Mr.One regrets that there is no Portrait of Mr.Alison,
there is a masterly one by Sir Henry Raeburn, admirably engraved by W.
Walker, of Edinburgh, in 1823.Perhaps it is one of the finest Portraits
of the present day.One is happy to perceive marks of health expressed
in his intellectually striking countenance.[57] In Biographical Anecdotes, 3 vols.appears a correspondence in
London, with Dr.Franklin, and William Whateley, and Joseph Whateley, in
1774.Temple, by a brother of Thomas
Whateley.Franklin, it appears, that
inflammatory and ill-judged letters were written by George Hutchinson,
and others, to _Thomas_ Whateley, Esq._private Secretary to Lord
Grenville_, respecting some disturbances in America, concerning Lord
Grenville's Stamp Act.On the death of Thomas, these letters were placed
in the hands of Dr.Franklin, whose duty, as agent to the colony, caused
him to transmit them to Boston.A quarrel arose between William Whateley
and Mr.Temple, as to which of them gave up those letters, and a duel
was fought.Franklin immediately cleared both those gentlemen from
all imputation.Of the celebrated interview in the council chamber,
between Mr.Franklin, an account is given by Dr.page 1. of the Monthly Magazine, and which candid
account entirely acquits Dr.Franklin from having deserved the rancorous
political acrimony of Mr.Wedderburn, whose intemperate language is
fully related in some of the Lives of Dr.Franklin, and in his Life,
published and sold by G. Nicholson, _Stourport_, 12mo.Lord Chatham spoke of Franklin in the highest strain of panegyric, when
adverting, in the year 1777, to his dissuasive arguments against the
American war.William Whateley was administrator of the goods and chattels of his
brother Thomas, who, of course, died without a will.and Political Tracts, the nineteenth
chapter consists of his account of two _Political_ Tracts, by Thomas
Whateley, Esq.and he thus concludes this chapter:--"Mr.Whateley also
wrote a tract on laying out pleasure grounds."is an
account of the quarrel and duel with Mr.It appears that Thomas Whateley died in June, 1772, and left two
brothers, William and Joseph.Debrett published "Scarce Tracts," in 4 vols.i. is one
called "The Budget," by D. Hartley, Esq.This same volume contains a
reply to this, viz."Remarks on the Budget, by Thomas Whateley, Esq.another tract by
Thomas Whateley, Esq.entitled "Considerations on the Trade and Finances
of the Kingdom."These two pamphlets, upon subjects so very different
from the alluring one on landscape gardening, and his unfinished one on
Shakspeare, convinces us, what a powerful writer he would have been, had
his life been longer spared.[58] The reader will be amply gratified by perusing page 158 of the late
Sir U. Price's well known Letter to Mr.Morris's
Observations on Water, as regards Ornamental Scenery; inserted in the
Gardener's Magazine for May, 1827.Whateley's distinction between a
river, a rivulet, and a rill, form, perhaps, five of the most seductive
pages of his book.Our own Shakspeare's imagery on this subject, should
not be overlooked:--

   The current that with gentle murmur glides,
   Thou know'st, being stopp'd, impatiently doth rage;
   But when his fair course is not hindered,
   He makes sweet music with the enamelled stones,
   Giving a gentle kiss to every sedge
   He overtaketh in his pilgrimage:
   And so by many winding nooks he strays
   With willing sport to the wild ocean.[59] The benevolent mind of the marquis shines even in his concluding
chapter; for he there wishes "to bring us back to a true taste for
beautiful nature--to more humane and salutary regulations of the
country--to produce the _moral_ landscapes which delight the mind.His
view of the good mother, seeing her children playing round her at their
cottage, near the common, thus "endearing her home, and making even the
air she breathed more delightful to her, make these sort of commons, to
me, the most delightful of _English gardens_.The dwellings of the happy
and peaceful husbandmen would soon rise up in the midst of compact
farms.Can there exist a more delightful habitation for man, than a neat
farm-house in the centre of a pleasing landscape?There avoiding disease
and lassitude, useless expence, the waste of land in large and dismal
parks, and above all, by preventing misery, and promoting happiness, we
shall indeed have gained the prize of having united the agreeable with
the useful.Perhaps, when every folly is exhausted, there will come a
time, in which men will be so far enlightened as to prefer the real
pleasures of nature to vanity and chimera."[60] Perhaps it may gratify those who seek for health, by their
attachment to gardens, to note the age that some of our English
horticulturists have attained to:--Parkinson died at about 78;
Tradescant, the father, died an old man; Switzer, about 80; Sir Thomas
Browne died at 77; Evelyn, at 86; Dr.Beale, at 80; Jacob Bobart, at 85;
Collinson, at 75; a son of Dr.Lawrence (equally fond of gardens as his
father) at 86; Bishop Compton, at 81; Bridgman, at an advanced age;
Knowlton, gardener to Lord Burlington, at 90; Miller, at 80; James Lee,
at an advanced age; Lord Kames, at 86; Abercrombie, at 80; the Rev.Gilpin, at 80; Duncan, a gardener, upwards of 90; Hunter, who published
_Sylva_, at 86; Speechley, at 86; Horace Walpole, at 80; Mr.Bates, the
celebrated and ancient horticulturist of High Wickham, who died there in
December, 1819, at the great age of 89; Marshall, at an advanced age;
Sir Jos.Banks, at 77; Joseph Cradock, at 85; James Dickson, at 89; Dr.Andrew Duncan, at 83; and Sir U. Price, at 83.Loudon, at page 1063
of his Encyclop.inform us, that a market garden, and nursery, near
Parson's Green, had been, for upwards of two centuries, occupied by a
family of the name of Rench; that one of them (who instituted the first
annual exhibition of flowers) died at the age of ninety-nine years,
having had thirty-three children; and that his son (mentioned by
Collinson, as famous for forest trees) introduced the moss-rose, planted
the elm trees now growing in the Bird-cage Walk, St.James's Park, from
trees reared in his own nursery, married two wives, had thirty-five
children, and died in 1783, in the same room in which he was born, at
the age of a hundred and one years.Reflecting on the great age of some
of the above, reminds me of what a "Journal Encyclopedique" said of
Lestiboudois, another horticulturist and botanist, who died at Lille, at
the age of ninety, and who (for even almost in our ashes _live their
wonted fires_) gave lectures in the very last year of his life."When he
had (says an ancient friend of his) but few hours more to live, he
ordered snow-drops, violets, and crocuses, to be brought to his bed, and
compared them with the figures in Tournefort.His whole existence had
been consecrated to the good of the public, and to the alleviation of
misery; thus he looked forward to his dissolution with a tranquillity of
soul that can only result from a life of rectitude; he never acquired a
fortune; and left no other inheritance to his children, but integrity
and virtue."[61] About eighty years previous to Hyll's Treatise on Bees, Rucellai,
an Italian of distinction, who aspired to a cardinal's hat, and who
laboured with zeal and taste (I am copying from De Sismondi's View of
the Literature of the South of Europe) to render Italian poetry
classical, or a pure imitation of the ancients, published his most
celebrated poem on Bees."It receives (says De Sismondi) a particular
interest from the real fondness which Rucellai seems to have entertained
for these creatures.There is something so sincere in his respect for
their virgin purity, and in his admiration of the order of their
government, that he inspires us with real interest for them.All his
descriptions are full of life and truth."[62] Ben Jonson, in his _Discourses_, gives the following eulogy on this
illustrious author:--"No member of his speech but consisted of his own
graces.His hearers could not cough or look aside from him without loss.He commanded where he spoke, and had his judges angry and pleased at his
devotion: no man had their affections more in his power; the fear of
every man that heard him was, lest he should make an end."Loudon,
when treating on the study of plants, observes, that "This wonderful
philosopher explored and developed the true foundations of human
knowledge, with a sagacity and penetration unparalleled in the history
of mankind."applied to the eight books of Hooker's
Ecclesiastical Polity, may well apply to the writings of Bacon:--"there
is no learning that this man hath not searched into.His books will get
reverence by age, for there is in them such seeds of eternity, that they
will continue till the last fire shall devour all learning."Monsieur
Thomas, in his Eulogy of Descartes, says, "Bacon explored every path of
human knowledge, he sat in judgment on past ages, and anticipated those
that were to come."The reader will be gratified by inspecting the
second volume of Mr.Malone's publication of Aubrey's Letters, in the
Bodleian Library, as well as the richly decorated and entertaining
Beauties of England and Wales, and Pennant's Tour from Chester to
London, for some curious notices of the ancient mansion, garden, and
orchard, at Gorhambury.[63] The reader will be amply gratified by Mr.Johnson's review of the
general state of horticulture at this period, in his History of English
Gardening, and with the zeal with which he records the attachment of
James I. and Charles, to this science; and where, in a subsequent
chapter, he glances on the progress of our Botany, and proudly twines
round the brows of the modest, but immortal, Ray, a most deserved and
generous wreath.[64] I subjoin a few extracts from the first book of his English
Husbandman, 4to.1635:--"A garden is so profitable, necessary, and such
an ornament and grace to every house and housekeeper, that the
dwelling-place is lame and maimed if it want that goodly limbe, and
beauty.I do not wonder either at the worke of art, or nature, when I
behold in a goodly, rich and fertill soyle, a garden adorned with all
the delights and delicacies which are within man's understanding,
because the naturall goodnesse of the earth (which not enduring to bee
idle) will bring forth whatsoever is cast into her; but when I behold
upon a barren, dry, and dejected earth, such as the Peake-hills, where a
man may behold snow all summer, or on the East-mores, whose best herbage
is nothing but mosse, and iron-stone, in such a place, I say, to behold
a delicate, rich, and fruitful garden, it shewes great worthinesse in
the owner, and infinite art and industry in the workeman, and makes mee
both admire and love the begetters of such excellencies."And again,--"For the situation of the garden-plot for pleasure, you
shall understand, that it must ever bee placed so neare unto the
dwelling-house as it is possible, both because the eye of the owner may
be a guard and support from inconveniences, as all that the especial
roomes and prospects of the house may be adorned, perfumed, and inriched
with the delicate proportions, odoriferous smells, and wholesome airs
which shall ascend and vaporate from the same."He then gives a variety of cuts of knots and mazes, and labyrinths, of
which he observes, that "many other adornations and beautifyings there
are, which belong to the setting forth of a curious garden, but for as
much as none are more rare or more esteemed than these I have set down,
being the best ornaments of the best gardens of this kingdome, I think
them tastes sufficient for every husbandman or other of better quality,
which delighteth in the beauty, and well trimming of his ground."He
thus remarks:--"as in the composition of a delicate woman, the grace of
her cheeke is the mixture of red and white, the wonder of her eye blacke
and white, and the beauty of her hand blew and white, any of which is
not said to be beautifull if it consist of single or simple colours; and
so in these walkes or alleyes the all greene, nor the all yellow cannot
be said to bee most beautifull, but the greene and yellow, (that is to
say, the untroade grasse, and the well knit gravell) being equally mixt,
give the eye both luster and delight beyond all comparison."His description of the following flower is singular: "_The Crowne
Emperiall_, is, of all flowers, both forraigne and home-bred, the
delicatest, and strangest: it hath the true shape of an imperiall
crowne, and will be of divers colours, according to the art of the
gardener.In the middest of the flower you shall see a round pearle
stand, in proportion, colour, and orientnesse, like a true naturall
pearle, only it is of a soft liquid substance: this pearle, if you shake
the flower never so violently, will not fall off, neyther if you let it
continue never so long, will it eyther encrease or diminish in the
bignesse, but remaineth all one: yet if with your finger you take and
wipe it away, in less than an hour after you shall have another arise in
the same place, and of the same bignesse.This pearle, if you taste it
upon your tongue, is pleasant, and sweet like honey: this flower when
the sunne ariseth, you shall see it looke directly to the east, with the
stalk bent lowe thereunto, and as the sunne ariseth higher and higher,
so the flower will likewise ascend, and when the sunne is come into the
meridian or noone poynt, which is directly over it, then will it stand
upright upon the stalke, and looke directly upward, and as the sunne
declineth, so will it likewise decline, and at the sunne setting looke
directly to the west only."His mention of another flower is attractive:--"Now for your _Wall
Gilliflower_, it delighteth in hard rubbish, limy, and stony grounds,
whence it commeth they covet most to grow upon walls, pavements, and
such like barraine places.It may be sowen in any moneth or season, for
it is a seed of that hardness, that it makes no difference betwixt
winter and summer, but will flourish in both equally, and beareth his
flowers all the yeere, whence it comes that the husbandman preserves it
most in his _bee-garden_, for it is _wondrous sweet_, and affordeth much
honey.It would be sowen in very small quantity, for after it hath once
taken roote, it will naturally of itself overspread much ground, and
hardly ever after be rooted out.It is of itselfe of so exceeding a
strong, and _sweet smell_, that it cannot be forced to take any other,
and therefore is ever preserved in its owne nature."of Gardening, fondly reviews the taste
for flowers which pervaded most ranks during the time of Elizabeth, and
Evelyn.The _Spectacle de la Nature_, of which we have a translation in 1740,
has a richly diffuse chapter on flowers.I here transcribe a small part
thereof:--

_Prior._ "The beauty of flowers never fails to inspire us with joy; and
when we have sufficiently examined the fairest, we are sensible they are
only proper to refresh the sight; and, indeed, the prospect they afford
is so touching, and we experience their power to be so effectual, that
the generality of those arts which are ambitious to please, seem most
successful when they borrow their assistance.Sculpture imitates them in
its softest ornaments; architecture bestows the embellishments of leaves
and festoons on those columns and fronts, which would otherwise be too
naked.The richest embroideries are little more than foliage and
flowers; the most magnificent silks are almost covered with these
charming forms, and are thought beautiful, in proportion as they
resemble the lively tinge of natural flowers."These have always been the symbols, or representations of joy; they
were formerly the inseparable ornaments of feasts, and are still
introduced with applause, toward the close of our entertainments, when
they are brought in with the fruit, to enliven the festival that begins
to languish.And they are so peculiarly adapted to scenes of pleasure,
that they are always considered as inconsistent with mourning.Decency,
informed by nature, never admits them into those places where tears and
affliction are predominant._Countess._ "The festivals in the country are never celebrated without
garlands, and the entertainments of the polite are ushered in by a
flower.If the winter denies them that gratification, they have recourse
to art.A young bride, in all the magnificence of her nuptial array,
would imagine she wanted a necessary part of her ornaments, if she did
not improve them with a sprig of flowers.A queen, amidst the greatest
solemnities, though she is covered with the jewels of the crown, has an
inclination to this rural ornament; she is not satisfied with mere
grandeur and majesty, but is desirous of assuming an air of softness and
gaiety, by the mediation of flowers._Prior._ "Religion itself, with all its simplicity and abstraction, and
amidst the abhorrence it professes to theatrical pomp, which rather
tends to dissipate the heart, than to inspire it with a due reverence
for sacred mysteries, and a sensibility of human wants, permits some of
its festivals to be celebrated with boughs, and chaplets of flowers."[66] In his Diary is the following entry:--"1658, 27 Jan.After six fits
of an ague, died my son Richard, five years and three days old onely,
but, at that tender age, a prodigy for witt and understanding; for
beauty of body, a very angel; for endowment of mind, of incredible and
rare hopes.He was all life, all prettinesse.What shall I say of his
frequent pathetical ejaculations uttered of himselfe: _Sweete Jesus,
save me, deliver me, pardon my sins, let thine angels receive me!_ So
early knowledge, so much piety and perfection!for such a child I blesse God in whose bosome he is!"Nanteuil's portrait is prefixed to his _Sylva_, 1664; and a fine copy of
the same, by Bartolozzi, is prefixed to Hunter's _Sylva_.Worlidge
engraved a fine portrait of him, prefixed to his _Sculptura_.Gaywood
engraved his portrait for the translation of _Lucretius_.In Walpole's
Anecdotes is his portrait, by Bannerman.[67] In "A Picturesque Promenade round Dorking," are selected many
interesting particulars of Mr.[68] Essex lost his head for having said that Elizabeth grew old and
cankered, and that her mind was as crooked as her carcase.Perhaps the
beauty of Mary galled Elizabeth.The Quarterly Review of July, 1828, thus remarks:--"When Elizabeth's
wrinkles waxed many, it is reported that an unfortunate master of the
Mint incurred disgrace, by a too faithful shilling; the die was broken,
and only one mutilated impression is now in existence.Her maids of
honour took the hint, and were thenceforth careful that no fragment of a
looking glass should remain in any room of the palace.In fact, the
lion-hearted lady had not heart to look herself in the face for the last
twenty years of her life."She loved Essex, of all
men, best; and yet the same axe which murdered Anne Bulleyn, was used to
revenge herself on him.The bloody task took three strokes, which so
enraged the multitude, (who loved Essex) that they would have torn the
executioner to pieces, had not the soldiers prevented them.Hutton,
in his "Journey to London," observes, that "their vengeance ought to
have been directed against the person who caused him to use it."What
her reflections were on these two bloody acts when on her death-bed, we
scarcely know.A modern writer on horticulture, nearly concludes a very
pleasing work, by enumerating (with slight historical notices) the
several plants cultivated in our gardens.He thus concludes his account
of one:--"Queen Elizabeth, in her last illness, eat little but Succory
Pottage."Loudon says it is used "as a fodder for cattle."The
French call it Chicoree _sauvage_.Her taste must have been something
like her heart.Poor Mary eat no supper the night previous to _her_ last
illness.Had it been possible for Elizabeth to have read those pages of
Robertson, which paint the long succession of calamities which befel
Mary, and the insolence and brutality she received from Darnley, and
which so eloquently plead for her frailties, perhaps even these pages
would not have softened her bloody disposition, which she seems to have
inherited from that insolent monster, her father."Mary's sufferings
(says this enchanting historian) exceed, both in degree and duration,
those tragical distresses which fancy has feigned, to excite sorrow and
commiseration; and while we survey them, we are apt altogether to forget
her frailties; we think of her faults with less indignation, and approve
of our tears as if they were shed for a person who had attained much
nearer to pure virtue.With regard to the queen's person, all
contemporary authors agree in ascribing to Mary the utmost beauty of
countenance, and elegance of shape, of which the human form is capable.Her hair was black, though, according to the fashion of that age, she
frequently borrowed locks, and of different colours.Her eyes were a
dark grey; her complexion was exquisitely fine, and her hands and arms
remarkably delicate, both as to shape and colour.Her stature was of an
height that rose to the majestic.She danced, she walked, and she rode
with equal grace.She sung, and played upon the lute with uncommon
skill."[69] I will merely give this brief extract as one out of many of great
force and beauty, from his _Salmonia_:--"If we look with wonder upon the
great remains of human works, such as the columns of Palmyra, broken in
the midst of the desert, the temples of Paestum, beautiful in the decay
of twenty centuries, or the mutilated fragments of Greek sculpture in
the Acropolis of Athens, or in our own Museum, as proofs of the genius
of artists, and power and riches of nations now past away, with how much
deeper feeling of admiration must we consider those grand monuments of
nature, which mark the revolutions of the globe; continents broken into
islands; one land produced, another destroyed; the bottom of the ocean
become a fertile soil; whole races of animals extinct; and the bones and
exuviae of one class covered with the remains of another, and upon the
graves of past generations--the marble or rocky tomb, as it were, of a
former animated world--new generations rising, and order and harmony
established, and a system of life and beauty produced, as it were, out
of chaos and death; proving the infinite power, wisdom, and goodness, of
the GREAT CAUSE OF ALL BEING!"I must trespass on my reader, by again
quoting from _Salmonia_:--"I envy no quality of the mind or intellect in
others; not genius, power, wit, or fancy; but if I could choose what
would be most delightful, and I believe most useful to me, I should
prefer _a firm religious belief_ to every other blessing; for it makes
life a discipline of goodness--creates new hopes, when all earthly hopes
vanish; and throws over the decay, the destruction of existence, the
most gorgeous of lights; awakens life even in death, and from corruption
and decay calls up beauty and divinity: makes an instrument of torture
and of shame the ladder of ascent to Paradise; and, far above all
combinations of earthly hopes, calls up the most delightful visions of
palms and amaranths, the gardens of the blest, the security of
everlasting joys, where the sensualist and the sceptic view only gloom,
decay, annihilation, and despair!"[70] In this delightful essay, he says, "the most exquisite delights of
sense are pursued, in the contrivance and plantation of gardens, which,
with fruits, flowers, shades, fountains, and the music of birds that
frequent such happy places, seem to furnish all the pleasures of the
several senses."Johnson, in his History of English Gardening, admirably
confirms this conflagration argument, by quoting the opinion or
testimony of the celebrated Goethe.[72] To this interesting subject is devoted, a part of Mr.Loudon's
concise and luminous review "Of the Rise, Progress, and Present State of
Gardening in the British Isles;" being chapter iv.[73] Perhaps there are few pages that more awfully paint the sacredness
of this spot, than page 36 in the fifth edition of Dr.[74] I do not mean to apply to the hospitable table of this reverend
gentleman, the lines of Peter Pindar:--

   One cut from _venison_, to the heart can speak,
   Stronger than ten quotations from the _Greek_.[75] I cannot prevent myself from quoting a very small portion of the
animated address of another clergyman, the Rev.J. G. Morris, as
chairman to the Wakefield Horticultural Society.I am certain each one
of my readers will blame me for not having inserted the whole of this
eloquent appeal.I copy it from the Gardener's Magazine for August,
1828:--"Conscious that I possessed no qualifications to fit me for the
task, and feeling that it ill became me to assume it, as I am as yet
nearly a stranger amongst you; aware, too, that I should be surrounded
by individuals so much more eligible, inasmuch as they are eminently
gifted with botanical science and practical knowledge, the result of
their horticultural pursuits and facilities, of which I am quite devoid;
I wished and begged to decline the proffered honour.It appears,
however, that my entreaties are not listened to, and that your kindness
and partiality persist in selecting for your chairman one so inadequate
to the situation.Gentlemen, I take the chair with much diffidence; but
I will presume to say, that, in the absence of other qualities, I bring
with me a passionate love for plants and flowers, for the sweets and
beauties of the garden, and no inconsiderable fondness for its more
substantial productions.Gardening, as a recreation and relaxation from
severer studies and more important avocations, has exquisite charms for
me; and I am ready, with old _Gerarde_, to confess, that 'the principal
delight is in the mind, singularly enriched with the knowledge of these
visible things; setting forth to us the invisible wisdom and admirable
workmanship of Almighty God.'With such predilections, you will easily
give me credit, gentlemen, for participating with this assembly in the
sincerest wishes for the complete and permanent establishment of a
society amongst us, whose object shall be to promote, in the surrounding
district, the introduction of different sorts of flowers, culinary
vegetables, fruits, improved culture and management generally, and _a
taste_ for botany as a science.These are pursuits, gentlemen, combining
at once health and innocence, pleasure and utility.Wakefield and its
vicinity appear to possess facilities for the accomplishment of such a
project, inferior to no district within this great palatinate, indeed,
little inferior to any in the kingdom.The country is beautiful and
charmingly varied, and, from the diversity of soil, suited to varied
productions; the whole thickly interspersed with seats and villas of
persons of opulence, possessing their conservatories, hot-houses, and
stoves, their orchards, flower and kitchen gardens: whilst few towns can
boast (as Wakefield can) of so many gardens within its enclosure,
cultivated with so much assiduity and skill, so much taste and deserved
success.Seven years ago, I had the honour to originate a similar
project in Preston, in Lancashire, and with the happiest success.In
that borough, possessing far less advantages than Wakefield offers, a
horticultural society was established, which, in its four annual
meetings, assembles all the rank and fashion of a circuit of more than
ten miles, and numbers more than a hundred and twenty subscribers to its
funds.Those who have not witnessed the interesting sight, can form but
a faint idea of the animating scene which is presented in a spacious and
handsome room, tastefully adorned with the choicest exotics from various
conservatories, and the more choice, because selected with a view to
competition: decorated with the varied beauties of the parterre, vieing
with each other in fragrance, hue, and delicacy of texture; whilst the
tables groan under the weight of delicious fruits and rare vegetables in
endless variety, the joint produce of hot-houses, stoves, orchards, and
kitchen gardens.Figure to yourselves, gentlemen, this elysium, graced
by some hundreds of our fair countrywomen, an absolute galaxy of
animated beauty, and that music lends its aid, and you will agree with
me that a more fascinating treat could hardly be devised.New flowers,
new fruits, recent varieties of those of long standing and established
character for excellence, are thus introduced, in lieu of those whose
inferiority is no longer doubtful.New culinary vegetables, or, from
superior treatment or mode of culture, rendered more salubrious and of
exquisite flavour, will load the stalls of our market-gardeners.I call
upon you, then, gentlemen, for your zealous support.Say not that you
have no gardens, or that your gardens are inconsiderable, or that you
are no cultivators; you are all interested in having good and delicious
fruits, nutritious and delicate culinary vegetables, and in procuring
them at a reasonable rate, which will be the results of improved and
successful cultivation.At our various exhibitions, let each contribute
that in which he excels, and our object will be attained.Gentlemen, I
fear I have trespassed too long on your patience and indulgence.I will
just urge one more motive for your warm support of our intended society;
it is this: that, by diffusing a love of plants and gardening, you will
materially contribute to the comfort and happiness of the laborious
classes; for the pleasure taken in such pursuits forms an
unexceptionable relaxation from the toils of business, and every hour
thus spent is subtracted from the ale-house and other haunts of idleness
and dissipation."[76] In the grounds of _Hagley_, were once inscribed these lines:--

   Here Pope!--ah, never must that tow'ring mind
   To his loved haunts, or dearer friend return;
   What art, what friendships!what fame resign'd:
   In yonder glade I trace his mournful urn.[77] At Holm-Lacey is preserved a sketch, in crayons, by Pope, (when on
a visit there) of Lord Strafford by Vandyke.It is well known that Pope
painted Betterton in oil colours, and gave it to Lord Mansfield.The
noble lord regretted the loss of this memorial, when his house was
consumed at the time of the disgraceful and ignorant riots.[78] Sir Joshua Reynolds used to tell the following anecdote relative to
Pope.--"When Reynolds was a young man, he was present at an auction of
very scarce pictures, which attracted a great crowd of _connoisseurs_
and others; when, in the moment of a very interesting piece being put
up, Mr.All was in an instant, from a scene of
confusion and bustle, a dead calm.The auctioneer, as if by instinct,
suspended his hammer.The audience, to an individual, as if by the same
impulse, rose up to receive the poet; and did not resume their seats
till he had reached the upper end of the room."A similar honour was paid to the Abbe Raynal, whose reputation was such,
that the Speaker of the House of Commons observing _him_ among the
spectators, suspended the business of the house till he had seen the
eloquent historian placed in a more commodious seat.It is painful to
relate, that this powerful writer, and good man, who narrowly escaped
the guillotine, expired in a garret, in extreme poverty, at the age of
eighty-four; the only property he left being one assignat of fifty
livres, worth not threepence in ready money.Perhaps one might have
applied the following anecdote (told by Dr.Drake in his Literary Hours)
to Abbe Raynal:--"A respectable character, having long figured in the
gay world at Paris, was at length compelled to live in an obscure
retreat in that city, the victim of severe misfortunes.He was so
indigent, that he subsisted only on an allowance from the parish.Every
week bread was sent to him sufficient for his support, and yet at
length, he demanded more.'With whom, sir, is it possible I should live?I am wretched, since I thus solicit charity, and am abandoned by all the
world.''But, sir, if you live alone, why do you ask for more bread than
is sufficient for yourself?'The other at last, with great reluctance,
confessed that he had a dog.The curate desired him to observe, that he
was only the distributor of the bread that belonged to the poor, and
that it was absolutely necessary that he should dispose of his dog.exclaimed the poor man, weeping, 'and if I lose my dog, who is
there then to love me?'The good pastor took his purse, and giving it to
him, 'take this, sir,' said he; 'this is mine--this I _can_ give.'"[79] How applicable are Gray's lines to Lord Byron himself, now!Can storied urn or animated bust
     Back to its mansion call the fleeting breath?Can honour's voice provoke the silent dust,
     Or flatt'ry soothe the dull cold ear of death?Perhaps in this _neglected_ spot is laid
     Some heart once pregnant with celestial fire!--



[80] Mr.Bowles, in some stanzas written since the death of Byron, thus
feelingly apostrophizes his noble spirit:--

   But I will bid th' Arcadian cypress wave,
     Pluck the green laurel from Peneus' side,
   And pray thy spirit may such quiet have
     That not one thought unkind be murmur'd o'er thy grave.[81] Perhaps one motive (no doubt there were numberless others) that
_might_ have induced Mr.Mason thus to honour the memory of Pope,

   ----_letting cold tears bedew his silver urn_,

_might_ have been from the recollection of his attachment to what
equally charmed Mr.[82] I know not whether Milton's portrait should have been here noticed.In a note to the eloquent, the talented, and graceful "Discours
d'Installation, prononce par M. le Vicomte H. de Thury, president de la
Societe d'Horticulture de Paris," it is beautifully observed, that
"Personne n'a mieux decrit ce delicieux jardin que Milton.Les Anglais
regardent comme le type de tous les jardins paysagers, et pittoresques,
la description que fait Milton du jardin d'Eden, et qui atteste que se
sublime genie etoit egalement poete, peintre et paysagiste."As I have
sought for the portraits of Mr.Whateley, and
have noticed those of Launcelot Brown, and Mr.Cradock, M.
R. P. Knight and Sir U. Price, who were all _paysagists_; surely our
great and severe republican was one.The Prince de Ligne speaks thus of Milton:--"les vers enchanteurs de ce
Roi des poetes, et des _jardiniers_.I do not know that every one will agree with Switzer in the concluding
part of what he says of Milton, in the History of Gardening, prefixed to
his Iconologia:--"But although things were in this terrible combustion,
we must not omit the famous Mr.John Milton, one of Cromwell's
Secretaries; who, by his excellent and never-to-be-equalled poem of
Paradise Lost, has particularly distinguished gardening, by taking that
for his theme; and shows, that though his eyes deprived him of the
benefit of seeing, yet his mind was wonderfully moved with the
philosophy, innocence, and beauty of this employ; his books, though
mixed with other subjects, being a kind of a philosophical body of
gardening, as well as divinity._had his pen been employed on
no other subject_."It must be needless reminding my reader, that Mr.Walpole's powerful pen
has taken care that our mighty poet, (who "on evil days, though fallen,
and with darkness and solitude compassed round,") shall not be
_defrauded of half his glory_.It is gratifying to remark, that an edition of Paradise Lost is now
announced for publication, in which the zeal of its spirited proprietors
has determined, that every word shall be printed in letters of gold.The
sanction of some of our most distinguished divines, and men of high
rank, evince the pride with which we all acknowledge the devout zeal and
mighty powers of the blind poet.Garrick's fondness for ornamental gardening, induced him finely
to catch at this invention, in his inimitable performance of Lord
Chalkstone.Pulteney relates this anecdote of Mr.Miller: "He was the only
person I ever knew who remembered to have seen Mr.I shall not
easily forget the pleasure that enlightened his countenance, it so
strongly expressed the _Virgilium tantum vidi_, when, in speaking of
that revered man, he related to me that incident of his youth."Ray only meditated a work to have been entitled _Horti_ Angliae.Had he written it, I should have felt a singular pride in introducing
his valued name in the present imperfect volume.[85] The generous minded reader will be gratified by referring to the
kind tribute, paid to the memory of Shenstone, by Mr.Johnson, in his History
of Gardening, thus speaks:--"Taken as a whole, it is the most complete
book of gardening ever published;"--and that, with the exception of
chymistry, "every art and science, at all illustrative of gardening, are
made to contribute their assistance."[86] In his "Unconnected Thoughts" he admires the _Oak_, for "its
majestic appearance, the rough grandeur of its bark, and the wide
protection of its branches: a large, branching, aged oak, is, perhaps,
the most venerable of all inanimate objects."[87] Tea was the favourite beverage of Dr.When Hanway
pronounced his anathema against it, Johnson rose in defence of it,
declaring himself "in that article a hardened sinner, having for years
diluted my meals with the infusion of that fascinating plant; my
tea-kettle has had no time to cool; with tea I have solaced the midnight
hour, and with tea welcomed the morning."Pennant was a great lover
of tea; a hardy honest Welch parson, on hearing that he usually retired
in the afternoon to his summer-house to enjoy that beverage, was moved
with indignation, that any thing weaker than ale or wine should be drunk
there; and calling to mind the good hunting times of old, passionately
exclaimed, "his father would have scorned it."[88] Sir Uvedale thus expresses his own sensations when viewing some of
these plantations:--"The inside fully answers to the dreary appearance
of the outside; of all dismal scenes it seems to me the most likely for
a man to hang himself in; he would, however, find some difficulty in the
execution, for amidst the endless multitude of stems, there is rarely a
single side branch to which a rope could be fastened.The whole wood is
a collection of tall naked poles.... Even its gloom is without
solemnity; it is only dull and dismal; and what light there is, like
that of hell,

   _Serves only to discover scenes of woe,
   Regions of sorrow, doleful shades._"



[89] This observation confirms what Sir U. Price so pointedly enforces
throughout the whole of his causticly sportive letter to Mr.Repton:
"that the best landscape painters would be the best landscape gardeners,
were they to turn their minds to the practical part; consequently, a
study of their works, the most useful study to an improver."--And that
"Van Huysum would be a much better judge of the merits and defects of
the most dressed scene--of a mere flower garden,--than a gardener."Browne was not an author; yet the title of the present volume
is "On the Portraits of English _Authors_ on Gardening."Neither was old
Bridgman nor Kent _authors_ on this subject; still I could not prevail
on myself to pass over such names in total silence.Clive resided at Moreton-Say, near Market-Drayton.He was a
prebend of Westminster.In
his village, scarcely a poor man existed.His kindness and benevolence
to the poor, could only be equalled by his friendly hospitality and kind
feeling to the more affluent in his neighbourhood:

   _Thy works, and alms, and all thy good endeavour,
   Follow thee up to joy and bliss for ever._

Miss Seward thus concludes one of her letters to him:--"I wish none were
permitted to enter the lists of criticism but those who feel poetic
beauty as keenly as yourself, and who have the same generous desire that
others should feel it."Clive with gratitude, from a
recollection of kindnesses received from him at a very early period of
my life, and which were of such a nature, as could not fail to animate
the mind of a young man to studious exertions.Archdeacon Plimley (now
the truly venerable Archdeacon Corbet, and who has been so long an
honour to his native county), in his Agricultural Survey of Shropshire,
respectfully introduces Mr.Clive's name; and when he addressed his
charge to the diocese of Hereford, in 1793, one really cannot but apply
to Mr.Clive, what he so eloquently enforces in that charge to each
clergyman:--"to cultivate a pure spirit within their own bosoms; to be
in every instance the right-hand neighbour to each parishioner; their
private adviser, their public monitor, their example in christian
conduct, their joy in health, their consolation in sickness."Archdeacon Clive, lies buried Robert Lord Clive,
conqueror of _Plassy_: on whose death appeared these extempore lines, by
a man of distinction, a friend to Lord Clive:--

   Life's a surface, slippery, glassy,
   Whereon tumbled Clive of Plassy;
   All the wealth the east could give,
   Brib'd not death to let him live:
   There's no distinction in the grave
   'Twixt the nabob and the slave.His lordship's death, in 1774, was owing to the same cause which
hastened that of the most worthy of men, Sir Samuel Romilly--from
shattered and worn out nerves;--from severe study in the latter, and
from the burning climate of the east in the former.Had Lord Clive lived
a few years longer, he would have enriched the whole neighbourhood round
his native spot.His vigorous, ardently-gifted, and penetrating mind,
projected plantations and other improvements, that could only have been
conceived by such minds as Olivier de Serres, or by Sully, or by our own
Evelyn.He was generous, social and
friendly; and if ever charity to the poor warmed the breast of any
mortal, it warmed that of Lord Clive.Few men had more kind affections
than Lord Clive.[92] The following passage from a favourite book of Dr.Darwin's, (the
System of Nature, by Linnaeus) will well apply to that searching and
penetrating mind, which so strongly possessed him through life.--"How
small a part of the great works of nature is laid open to our eyes, and
how many things are going on in secret which we know nothing of!How
many things are there which this age first was acquainted with!How many
things that we are ignorant of will come to light when all memory of us
shall be no more!for nature does not at once reveal all her secrets.We
are apt to look on ourselves as already admitted into the sanctuary of
her temple; we are still only in the porch."How full of grace, of
tenderness, and passion, is that elegy, which he composed the night he
feared a life he so passionately loved (Mrs.Pole, of Radburn,) was in
imminent danger, and when he dreamed she was dead:

   Stretch'd on her sable bier, the grave beside,
     A snow-white shroud her breathless bosom bound,
   O'er her white brow the _mimic lace_ was tied,
     And loves, and virtues, hung their garlands round.From these cold lips did softest accents flow?Round that pale mouth did sweetest dimples play?On this dull cheek the rose of beauty blow,
     And those dim eyes diffuse celestial rays?Did this cold hand unasking want relieve,
     Or wake the lyre to every rapturous sound?How sad, for other's woes, this breast could heave!How light this heart, for other's transport, bound![93] It was at this period of his residence at Lichfield, that the
present writer heard him strongly enforce the cultivation of _papaver
somniferum_.What he may have also enforced to others, may possibly have
given rise to some of those ingenious papers on its cultivation, which
are inserted not only in the Transactions of the Society for the
Encouragement of Arts, Manufactures and Commerce; in other publications,
but in the first and fifth volumes of the Memoirs of the Caledonian
Horticultural Society.Jones, on its
cultivation, in the former of these transactions, are particularly
diffuse and valuable.The subjoined plate is a copy of that in the title page to
"_Opiologia_, ou traicte concernant le naturel proprietes, vraye
preparation, et seur vsage de l'opium," a favourite volume with Dr.Darwin, printed at _la Haye_, 1614, 12mo.Darwin, in his Botanical
Garden, thus speaks of opium: "the finest opium is procured by wounding
the heads of large poppies with a three-edged knife, and tying
muscle-shells to them, to catch the drops.In small quantities it
exhilirates the mind, raises the passions, and invigorates the body; in
large ones, it is succeeded by intoxication, languor, stupor, and
death."[94] _Sterne_ mentions a traveller who always set out with the spleen
and jaundice,--"without one generous connection, or pleasurable anecdote
to tell of,--travelling straight on, looking neither to his right hand
or his left, lest love or pity should seduce him out of the road."Loudon seems to be a very different kind of a traveller: for his
horticultural spirit and benevolent views, pervade almost every page of
his late tour through _Bavaria_.One envies his feelings, too, in
another rural excursion, through the romantic scenery of _Bury_, at Mr.Hope's at _Deepdene_; and particularly when he
paints his own emotions on viewing the room of sculpture there.He even
could not, in October last, take his rural ride from _Edgware_ to _St.Alban's_ without thus awakening in each traveller a love of gardens, and
giving this gentle hint to an honest landlord:--"A new inn, in the
outskirts of _St.Alban's_, in the _Dunstable_ road, has an ample
garden, not made the most of.Such a piece of ground, and a gardener of
taste, would give an inn, so situated, so great a superiority, that
_every one would be tempted to stop there_; but the garden of this
Boniface, exhibits but the beginning of a good idea."When travelling
along our English roads, his mind no doubt frequently reverts to those
road-side gardens in the Netherlands, which he thus happily adverts to
in p.32 of his Encyclopaedia: "The gardens of the cottagers in these
countries, are undoubtedly better managed and more productive than those
of any other country; no man who has a cottage is without a garden
attached; often small, but rendered useful to a poor family, by the high
degree of culture given to it."Linnaeus, in his eloquent oration at
Upsal, enforces the pleasure of travelling in one's own country, through
its fields _and roads_.Heath, the zealous and affectionate
historian of Monmouth, in his account of that town and its romantic
neighbourhood, (published in 1804,) omits no opportunity of noticing the
many neat gardens, which add to the other rural charms of its rich
scenery, thus mentions another Boniface:--"The late Thomas Moxley, who
kept the public-house at Manson Cross, was a person that took great
delight in fruit-trees, and had a large piece of ground let him, for the
purpose of planting it with apple-trees; but his death (which followed
soon after) prevented the plan from being carried to the extent he
intended, though some of the land bears evidence of his zeal and
labour."Heath cannot even travel on the turnpike road, from
Monmouth to Hereford, without benevolently remarking, that "a number of
laborious families have erected small tenements, with a garden to each,
most of which are thickly planted with apple-trees, whose produce
considerably adds to the owner's support."[95] Of this celebrated biographer of Dr.Darwin (whose Verses to the
Memory of Mr.Garrick, and whose Monody on Captain Cook, will live as
long as our language is spoken,) Sir W. Scott thus describes his first
personal interview with:--"Miss Seward, when young, must have been
exquisitely beautiful; for, in advanced age, the regularity of her
features, the fire and expression of her countenance, gave her the
appearance of beauty, and almost of youth.Her eyes were auburn, of the
precise shade and hue of her hair, and possessed great expression.In
reciting, or in speaking with animation, they appeared to become darker;
and, as it were, to flash fire.I should have hesitated to state the
impression which this peculiarity made upon me at the time, had not my
observation been confirmed by that of the first actress of this or any
other age, with whom I lately happened to converse on our deceased
friend's expressive powers of countenance."[96] From one of these pleasing sermons I extract these few
lines:--"Among the most pleasing sights of a country village, is that of
a father and mother, followed by their family of different ages, issuing
from their little dwelling on a Sunday morning, as the bell tolls to
church.The children, with their ruddy, wholesome looks, are all neat
and clean.Their behaviour at church shews what an impression their
parents have given them of the holiness of the place, and of the duties
they have to perform.Though unregarded, as they return home, by their
richer neighbours, they carry back with them to their humble cottage the
blessing of God.--Pious parents!lead on your children from church to
heaven.an account of
some of the most remarkable places in North Wales.de Voltaire was so charmed with the taste and talents, and
polite engaging manners of La Fage, that he paid him the following
compliment; which may very justly be applied to Mr.Cradock:

   _Il recut deux presens des Dieux,
   Les plus charmans qu'ils puissent faire;
   L'un etoit le talent de plaire,
   L'autre le secret d'etre heureux._



[99] The Quarterly Review for April, 1821, observes, that "The total
number of exotics, introduced into this country, appears to be 11,970,
of which the first forty-seven species, including the orange, apricot,
pomegranate, &c. were introduced previously or during the reign of Henry
VIII., and no fewer than 6756 in the reign of George III.For this proud
accession to our exotic botany in the last century, the public are
chiefly indebted to Sir Joseph Banks, and Messrs.Lee and Kennedy, of
the Hammersmith nursery."[100] The invocation to this Vale, reminds one of Mr.Repton's
description:--"Downton Vale, near Ludlow, one of the most beautiful and
romantic valleys that the imagination can conceive.It is impossible by
description to convey an idea of its natural charms, or to do justice to
that taste which has displayed these charms to the greatest advantage,

   _With art clandestine, and conceal'd design._

A narrow, wild, and natural path, sometimes creeps under the beetling
rock, close by the margin of a mountain stream.It sometimes ascends to
an awful precipice, from whence the foaming waters are heard roaring in
the dark abyss below, or seen wildly dashing against its opposite banks;
while, in other places, the course of the river _Teme_ being impeded by
natural ledges of rock, the vale presents a calm, glassy mirror, that
reflects the surrounding foliage.The path, in various places, crosses
the water by bridges of the most romantic and contrasted forms; and,
branching in various directions, including some miles in length, is
occasionally varied and enriched by caves and cells, hovels, and covered
seats, or other buildings, in perfect harmony with the wild but pleasing
horrors of the scene."[101] Foxley, this far-famed seat of dignified and benevolent
retirement, has on many occasions become interesting.It gave a peaceful asylum to Benjamin Stillingfleet, when
his mind was depressed by disappointment.The then owner, Robert Price,
Esq.and his mild and amiable lady, both kindly pressed him to become an
inmate of their domestic retreat, that his health might be restored, and
his mind calmed; and though he modestly refused being a constant
intruder, yet he took up his residence in a cottage near them, and
delighted to pass his leisure hours in their happy domestic circle,
"blending his studious pursuits, with rural occupations," and
particularly with gardening.No doubt, to this protecting kindness, may,
on this spot, have been imbibed his great veneration for Theophrastus;
and here he must have laid the foundation of those attainments, which,
during the future periods of his life, obtained for him the high
approbation of the justly celebrated Mrs.Montagu, who, in her letters,
speaks of "this invaluable friend," in the highest possible terms of
praise.In this peaceful and consoling retreat, was written his original
and masterly tribute to the talents of Xenophon; and here was first
kindled his deep enthusiastic zeal for the classic authors of antiquity;
and the materials for his then intended edition of Milton (who he says
equalled all the ancients whom he imitated; the sublimity of Homer, the
majesty of Sophocles, the softness of Theocritus, and the gaiety of
Anacreon,) enriched with parallel passages from holy writ, the classics,
and the early Italian poets; and here he composed his matchless treatise
on the power and principles of Tartini's music (for it seems Mr.Price
himself "was a master of the art.")Here too, most probably, he
sketched, or first gathered, his early memoranda towards his future
general history of husbandry, from the earliest ages of the world to his
own time; and fostered a devoted zeal for Linnaeus, which produced that
spirited eulogium on him, which pervades the preface to his translation
of "Miscellaneous Tracts on Natural History."[102] Sir Uvedale, about fifty years ago, translated _Pausanias_ from
the Greek.One may judge of the feeling with which he dwelt on the pages
of this book, by what he says of that nation in vol.65 of his
Essays, where he speaks of being struck with the extreme richness of
some of the windows of our cathedrals and ruined abbeys: "I hope it will
not be supposed, that by admiring the picturesque circumstances of the
Gothic, I mean to undervalue the symmetry and beauty of Grecian
buildings: whatever comes to us from the Greeks, has an irresistible
claim to our admiration; that distinguished people seized on the true
points both of beauty and grandeur in all the arts, and their
architecture has justly obtained the same high pre-eminence as their
sculpture, poetry, and eloquence."[103] On the pomp of devotion in our ancient abbeys, Mr.R. P. Knight
thus interests his readers, in the chapter "Of the Sublime and
Pathetic," in the Inquiry into the principles of Taste:--"Every person
who has attended the celebration of high mass, at any considerable
ecclesiastical establishment, must have felt how much the splendour and
magnificence of the Roman Catholic worship tends to exalt the spirit of
devotion, and to inspire the soul with rapture and enthusiasm.Not only
the impressive melody of the vocal and instrumental music, and the
imposing solemnity of the ceremonies, but the pomp and brilliancy of the
sacerdotal garments, and the rich and costly decorations of the altar,
raise the character of religion, and give it an air of dignity and
majesty unknown to any of the reformed churches."he thus adverts to the effects of
the levelling system of Launcelot Browne:--"From this influence of
fashion, and the particular influence of Mr.Browne, models of old
gardens are in this country still scarcer in nature than in painting;
and therefore what good parts there may be in such gardens, whether
proceeding from original design, or from the changes produced by time
and accident, can no longer be observed; and yet, from these specimens
of ancient art, however they may be condemned as old fashioned, many
hints might certainly be taken, and blended with such modern
improvements as really deserve the name."--"Were my arguments in favour
of many parts of the old style of gardening ever so convincing, the most
I could hope from them at present, would be, to produce _some caution_;
and to assist in preserving some of the few remains of old magnificence
that still exist, by making the owner less ready to listen to a
professor, whose interest it is to recommend total demolition."R.
P. Knight, in a note to his _landscape_, thus remarks on this subject:
"I remember a country clock-maker, who being employed to clean a more
complex machine than he had been accustomed to, very confidently took it
to pieces; but finding, when he came to put it together again, some
wheels of which he could not discover the use, very discreetly carried
them off in his pocket.The simple artifice of this prudent mechanic,
always recurs to my mind, when I observe the manner in which our modern
improvers repair and embellish old places; not knowing how to employ the
terraces, mounds, avenues, and other features which they find there,
they take them all away, and cover the places which they occupied with
turf.It is a short and easy method of proceeding; and if their
employers will be satisfied with it, they are not to be blamed for
persevering in it, as it may be executed by proxy, as well as in
person."Severely (and no doubt justly), as the too generally smooth and
monotonous system of Mr.Browne has been condemned, yet he must have had
great merit to have obtained the many encomiums he did obtain from some
of our first nobility and gentry.The _evil_ which he did in many of
their altered pleasure-grounds, _lives after him--the good is oft
interred in his grave_.George Mason justly observes that "Nature's favourite haunts
are the school of gardening."Chrysostom said of Xenophon, that "he had something of
witchcraft in his writings."It would not be too much to say the same of
this poet.They stop at the threshold
and watch the girl curiously.The elder woman is weeping as she
looks at her._

GIRL

_Stretching forth her hand to Pierre._

Oh, that is a soldier!Be so kind, soldier, tell me how to go to
Lonua.PIERRE

_Confused._

I do not know, Mademoiselle.GIRL

_Looking at everybody mournfully._

Who knows?JEANNE

_Cautiously and tenderly leading her to a seat._

Sit down, child, take a rest, my dear, give your poor feet a
rest.Pierre, her feet are wounded, yet she wants to walk all
the time.ELDERLY WOMAN

I wanted to stop her, Monsieur Pierre, but it is impossible to
stop her.If we close the door before her the poor girl beats
her head against the walls, like a bird in a cage.François enters from the garden and occupies
himself again with the flowers.He glances at the girl from time
to time.It is evident that he is making painful efforts to hear
and understand what is going on._

GIRL

It is time for me to go.JEANNE

Rest yourself, here, my child!At night it
is so terrible on the roads.There, in the dark air, bullets are
buzzing instead of our dear bees; there wicked people, vicious
beasts are roaming.And there is no one who can tell you, for
there is no one who knows how to go to Lonua.GIRL

Don't you know how I could find my way to Lonua?PIERRE

_Softly._

What is she asking?Emil GRELIEU

Oh, you may speak louder; she can hear as little as François.She is asking about the village which the Prussians have set on
fire.Her home used to be there--now there are only ruins and
corpses there.There is no road that leads to Lonua!GIRL

Don't you know it, either?I have asked everybody,
and no one can tell me how to find my way to Lonua._She rises quickly and walks over to François._

Tell me; you are kindhearted!Don't you know the way to Lonua?_François looks at her intently.Silently he turns away and
walks out, stooping._

JEANNE

_Seating her again._

Sit down, little girl.GIRL

_Sadly._

I am asking, and they are silent.EMIL GRELIEU

I suppose she is also asking the bodies of the dead that lie in
the fields and in the ditches how to go to Lonua.JEANNE

Her hands and her dress were bloodstained.I will hold you in my arms,
and you will feel better and more comfortable, my little child.GIRL

_Softly._

Tell me, how can I find my way to Lonua?JEANNE

Yes, yes, come!Emil, I will go with her to my room.Emil Grelieu and
Pierre remain._

EMIL GRELIEU

Lonua!A quiet little village which no one ever noticed
before--houses, trees, and flowers.Who knows
the way to that little village?Pierre, the soul of our people
is roaming about in the watches of the night, asking the dead
how to find the way to Lonua!Pierre, I cannot endure it any
longer!Oh, weep,
you German Nation--bitter will be the fate of your children,
terrible will be your disgrace before the judgment of the free
nations!_Curtain_



SCENE III


_Night.The dark silhouette of Emil Grelieu's villa stands
out in the background.The gatekeeper's house is seen among
the trees, a dim light in the window.At the cast-iron fence
frightened women are huddled together, watching the fire in the
distance.An alarming redness has covered the sky; only in the
zenith is the sky dark.The reflection of the fire falls upon
objects and people, casting strange shadows against the mirrors
of the mute and dark villa.The voices sound muffled and timid;
there are frequent pauses and prolonged sighs.HENRIETTA

My God, my God!It is burning and burning,
and there is no end to the fire!SECOND WOMAN

Yesterday it was burning further away, and tonight the fire is
nearer.HENRIETTA

It is burning and burning, there is no end to the fire!Today
the sun was covered in a mist.SECOND WOMAN

It is forever burning, and the sun is growing ever darker!Now
it is lighter at night than in the daytime!SILVINA

I am afraid!HENRIETTA

Be silent, Silvina, be silent!_Silence._

SECOND WOMAN

I can't hear a sound.If I close my eyes
it seems to me that nothing is going on there.HENRIETTA

I can see all that is going on there even with my eyes closed.SILVINA

Oh, I am afraid!SECOND WOMAN

Where is it burning?HENRIETTA

I don't know.It is burning and burning, and there is no end to
the fire!It may be that they have all perished by this time.It may be that something terrible is going on there, and we are
looking on and know nothing._A fourth woman approaches them quietly._

FOURTH WOMAN

Good evening!SILVINA

_With restraint._

Oh!HENRIETTA

Oh, you have frightened us!FOURTH WOMAN

Good evening, Madame Henrietta!Never mind my coming here--it
is terrible to stay in the house!I guessed that you were not
sleeping, but here, watching.And we can't hear a sound--how quiet!HENRIETTA

It is burning and burning.Haven't you heard anything about your
husband?FOURTH WOMAN

No, nothing.HENRIETTA

And with whom are your children just now?FOURTH WOMAN

Alone.Is it true that Monsieur Pierre was
killed?HENRIETTA

_Agitated._

Just imagine!I simply cannot understand what is
going on!You see, there is no one in the house now, and we are
afraid to sleep there--

SECOND WOMAN

The three of us sleep here, in the gatekeeper's house.HENRIETTA

I am afraid to look into that house even in the daytime--the
house is so large and so empty!And there are no men there, not
a soul--

FOURTH WOMAN

Is it true that François has gone to shoot the Prussians?Everybody is talking about it, but we don't know.He
disappeared quietly, like a mouse.FOURTH WOMAN

He will be hanged--the Prussians hang such people!HENRIETTA

Wait, wait!Today, while I was in the garden, I heard the
telephone ringing in the house; it was ringing for a long time.I was frightened, but I went in after all--and, just think of
it!Some one said: "Monsieur Pierre was killed!"SECOND WOMAN

And nothing more?HENRIETTA

Nothing more; not a word!I felt so bad
and was so frightened that I could hardly run out.Now I will
not enter that house for anything!FOURTH WOMAN

Whose voice was it?SECOND WOMAN

Madame Henrietta says it was an unfamiliar voice.HENRIETTA

Yes, an unfamiliar voice.There seems to be a light in the windows of the
house--somebody is there!SILVINA

Oh, I am afraid!HENRIETTA

Oh, what are you saying; what are you saying?SECOND WOMAN

That's from the redness of the sky!FOURTH WOMAN

What if some one is ringing there again?HENRIETTA

How is that possible?Silence._

SECOND WOMAN

What will become of us?They are coming this way, and there is
nothing that can stop them!FOURTH WOMAN

I wish I might die now!When you are dead, you don't hear or see
anything.HENRIETTA

It keeps on all night like this--it is burning and burning!And
in the daytime it will again be hard to see things on account of
the smoke; and the bread will smell of burning!FOURTH WOMAN

They have killed Monsieur Pierre.SECOND WOMAN

They have killed him?SILVINA

You must not speak of it!_Weeps softly._

FOURTH WOMAN

They say there are twenty millions of them, and they have
already set Paris on fire.They say they have cannon which can
hit a hundred kilometers away.HENRIETTA

My God, my God!SECOND WOMAN

Merciful God, have pity on us!FOURTH WOMAN

And they are flying and they are hurling bombs from
airships--terrible bombs, which destroy entire cities!HENRIETTA

My God!Before this You were
alone in the sky, and now those base Prussians are there too!SECOND WOMAN

Before this, when my soul wanted rest and joy I looked at the
sky, but now there is no place where a poor soul can find rest
and joy!FOURTH WOMAN

They have taken everything away from our Belgium--even the sky!Don't you think that now my husband, my husband--

HENRIETTA

No, no!FOURTH WOMAN

Why is the sky so red?SECOND WOMAN

Have mercy on us, O God!The redness of the flames seems to be swaying over the
earth._

_Curtain_



SCENE IV


_Dawn.The sun has already risen, but it is hidden behind the
heavy mist and smoke._

_A large room in Emil Grelieu's villa, which has been turned
into a sickroom.There are two wounded there, Grelieu himself,
with a serious wound in his shoulder, and his son Maurice, with
a light wound on his right arm.The large window, covered with
half transparent curtains, admits a faint bluish light.In an armchair at the bedside of
Grelieu there is a motionless figure in white, Jeanne_.EMIL GRELIEU

_Softly._

Jeanne!JEANNE

Shall I give you some water?EMIL GRELIEU

No.JEANNE

Oh, no, not at all.Can't you fall
asleep, Emil?EMIL GRELIEU

What time is it?_She goes over to the window quietly, and pushing the curtain
aside slightly, looks at her little watch.Then she returns just
as quietly._

JEANNE

It is still early.Perhaps you will try to fall asleep, Emil?It
seems to me that you have been suffering great pain; you have
been groaning all night.EMIL GRELIEU

No, I am feeling better.JEANNE

Nasty weather, Emil; you can't see the sun.Suddenly Maurice utters a cry in his sleep; the cry
turns into a groan and indistinct mumbling.Jeanne walks over to
him and listens, then returns to her seat._

EMIL GRELIEU

Is the boy getting on well?JEANNE

Don't worry, Emil.He only said a few words in his sleep.EMIL GRELIEU

He has done it several times tonight.JEANNE

I am afraid that he is disturbing you.We can have him removed
to another room and Henrietta will stay with him.The boy's
blood is in good condition.In another week, I believe, we shall
be able to remove the bandage from his arm.EMIL GRELIEU

No, let him stay here, Jeanne.JEANNE

What is it, my dear?_She kneels at his bed and kisses his hand carefully._

EMIL GRELIEU

Jeanne!JEANNE

I think your fever has gone down, my dear._Impresses another kiss upon his hand and clings to it._

EMIL GRELIEU

You are my love, Jeanne.JEANNE

Do not speak, do not speak._A brief moment of silence._

EMIL GRELIEU

_Moving his head restlessly._

It is so hard to breathe here, the air----

JEANNE

The window has been open all night, my dear.There is not a
breeze outside.EMIL GRELIEU

There is smoke.MAURICE

_Utters a cry once more, then mutters_--

Stop, stop, stop!_Again indistinctly._

It is burning, it is burning!Who is going to the battery,
who is going to the battery----

_He mutters and then grows silent._

EMIL GRELIEU

What painful dreams!JEANNE

That's nothing; the boy always used to talk in his sleep.EMIL GRELIEU

Jeanne!JEANNE

What is it, my dear?EMIL GRELIEU

Sit down.EMIL GRELIEU

Jeanne.... Are you thinking about Pierre?_Silence._

JEANNE

_Softly._

Don't speak of him.EMIL GRELIEU

You are right.JEANNE

_After a brief pause._

That's true.EMIL GRELIEU

We shall follow him later.He will not come here, but we shall
go to him.Do you
remember the red rose which you gave him?EMIL GRELIEU

It is so clear.You are the best woman in
the world._Silence._

EMIL GRELIEU

_Tossing about in his bed._

It is so hard to breathe.JEANNE

My dear----

EMIL GRELIEU

No, that's nothing.Jeanne, was I
dreaming, or have I really heard cannonading?JEANNE

You really heard it, at about five o'clock.But very far away,
Emil--it was hardly audible.Close your eyes, my dear, rest
yourself._Silence_

MAURICE

_Faintly._

Mamma!_Jeanne walks over to him quietly._

JEANNE

Are you awake?JEANNE

He is awake.EMIL GRELIEU

Good morning, Maurice.MAURICE

Good morning, papa.EMIL GRELIEU

I, too, am feeling well.Jeanne, you may draw the curtain aside.Still it will be easier for you to
breathe when it is light._She draws the curtain aside slowly, so as not to make it too
light at once.Beyond the large window vague silhouettes of the
trees are seen at the window frames and several withered, bent
flowers.Maurice is trying to adjust the screen._

JEANNE

What are you doing, Maurice?MAURICE

My coat--Never mind, I'll fix it myself._Guiltily._

No, mamma, you had better help me.JEANNE

_Going behind the screen._

What a foolish boy you are, Maurice._Behind the screen._

Be careful, be careful, that's the way.MAURICE

_Behind the screen._

Pin this for me right here, as you did yesterday.JEANNE

_Behind the screen._

Of course._Maurice comes out, his right arm dressed in a bandage.He goes
over to his father and first kisses his hand, then, upon a sign
from his eyes, he kisses him on the lips._

EMIL GRELIEU

Good morning, good morning, my dear boy.MAURICE

_Looking around at the screen, where his mother is putting the
bed in order._

Papa, look!_He takes his hand out of the bandage and straightens it
quickly.Emil Grelieu
threatens him with his finger.Jeanne puts the screen aside, and
the bed is already in order._

JEANNE

I am through now.MAURICE

Oh, no; under no circumstances.Last
night I washed myself with my left hand and it was very fine._Walking over to the open window._

How nasty it is.These scoundrels have spoiled the day.Still,
it is warm and there is the smell of flowers.It's good, papa;
it is very fine.EMIL GRELIEU

Yes, it is pleasant.MAURICE

Well, I am going.JEANNE

Clean your teeth; you didn't do it yesterday, Maurice._

What's the use of it now?_

Papa, do you know, well have good news today; I feel it._He is heard calling in a ringing voice, "Silvina."_

EMIL GRELIEU

I feel better.JEANNE

I'll let you have your coffee directly.You are looking much
better today, much better.EMIL GRELIEU

What is this?JEANNE

Perfume, with water.I'll bathe your face with it That's the
way.EMIL GRELIEU

Yes.JEANNE

He didn't mean anything.He is very happy because he is a hero.EMIL GRELIEU

Do you know any news?JEANNE

_Irresolutely._

Nothing.EMIL GRELIEU

Tell me, Jeanne; you were firmer before.JEANNE

Was I firmer?Perhaps.... I have grown accustomed to talk to
you softly at night.Well--how shall I tell it to you?EMIL GRELIEU

Coming?Don't be excited, but I
think that it will be necessary for us to leave for Antwerp
today.EMIL GRELIEU

Are they near?JEANNE

Yes, they are near._Sings softly._

"Le Roi, la Loi, la Liberté."I have not told you
that the King inquired yesterday about your health.I answered
that you were feeling better and that you will be able to leave
today.EMIL GRELIEU

Of course I am able to leave today.JEANNE

What did the King say?_Singing the same tune._

He said that their numbers were too great.EMIL GRELIEU

What else did he say?He said that there was a God and there was
righteousness.That's what I believe I heard him say--that there
was still a God and that righteousness was still in existence.But it is so good that they still
exist._Silence._

EMIL GRELIEU

Yes, in the daytime you are so different.Where do you get so
much strength, Jeanne?EMIL GRELIEU

I am forever looking at your hair.I am wondering why it hasn't
turned gray.JEANNE

I dye it at night, Emil.Oh, yes, I haven't told you yet--some one
will be here to see you today--Secretary Lagard and some one
else by the name of Count Clairmont.EMIL GRELIEU

Count Clairmont?JEANNE

It is not necessary that you should know him.He is simply known
as Count Clairmont, Count Clairmont--.That's a good name for a
very good man.EMIL GRELIEU

I know a very good man in Belgium--

JEANNE

Tsh!You must only remember--Count
Clairmont.They have some important matters to discuss with you,
I believe.And they'll send you an automobile, to take you to
Antwerp.EMIL GRELIEU

_Smiling._

Count Clairmont?JEANNE

_Also smiling._

Yes.You are loved by everybody, but if I were a King, I would
have sent you an aeroplane._Throwing back her hands in sorrow which she is trying vainly to
suppress._

Ah, how good it would be now to rise from the ground and
fly--and fly for a long, long time._Enter Maurice._

MAURICE

I am ready now, I have cleaned my teeth.I've even taken a walk
in the garden.But I have never before noticed that we have such
a beautiful garden!JEANNE

Coffee will be ready directly.If he disturbs you with his talk,
call me, Emil.MAURICE

Oh, I did not mean to disturb you.I'll not
disturb you any more.EMIL GRELIEU

You may speak, speak.JEANNE

But you must save your strength, don't forget that, Emil._Exit._

MAURICE

_Sitting down quietly at the window._

Perhaps I really ought not to speak, papa?EMIL GRELIEU

_Smiling faintly._

Can you be silent?MAURICE

_Blushing._

No, father, I cannot just now.I suppose I seem to you very
young.EMIL GRELIEU

And what do you think of it yourself?MAURICE

_Blushing again._

I am no longer as young as I was three weeks ago.Yes, only
three weeks ago--I remember the tolling of the bells in our
church, I remember how I teased François.How strange that
François has been lost and no one knows where he is.What does
it mean that a human being is lost and no one knows where he is?EMIL GRELIEU

Yes.But need an old
man love his fatherland less than I love it, for instance?The
old people love it even more intensely.I am not tiring you, am I?An old man came to us, he was
very feeble, he asked for bullets--well, let them hang me too--I
gave him bullets.A few of our regiment made sport of him, but
he said: "If only one Prussian bullet will strike me, it means
that the Prussians will have one bullet less."EMIL GRELIEU

Yes, that appeals to me, too.Have you heard the cannonading at
dawn?EMIL GRELIEU

Yes.Did mamma tell you that they are
coming nearer and nearer?MAURICE

_Rising._

Really?EMIL GRELIEU

They are coming, and we must leave for Antwerp today._He rises and walks back and forth, forgetting his wounded arm.Clenches his fist._

MAURICE

Father, tell me: What do you think of the present state of
affairs?EMIL GRELIEU

Mamma says there is a God and there is righteousness.MAURICE

_Raising his hand._

Mamma says----Let God bless mamma!_His face twitches like a child's face.He is trying to repress
his tears._

MAURICE

I still owe them something for Pierre.Forgive me, father; I
don't know whether I have a right to say this or not, but I am
altogether different from you.It is wicked but I can't help it.I was looking this morning at your flowers in the garden and I
felt so sorry--sorry for you, because you had grown them.EMIL GRELIEU

Maurice!MAURICE

The scoundrels!I don't want to consider them human beings, and
I shall not consider them human beings._Enter Jeanne._

JEANNE

What is it, Maurice?_As he passes he embraces his mother with his left hand and
kisses her._

JEANNE

You had better sit down.It is dangerous for your health to walk
around this way.EMIL GRELIEU

Sit down, Maurice._Maurice sits down at the window facing the garden.Emil Grelieu
smiles sadly and closes his eyes.Silvina, the maid, brings in
coffee and sets it on the table near Grelieu's bed._

SILVINA

Good morning, Monsieur Emil.EMIL GRELIEU

_Opening his eyes._

Good morning, Silvina._Exit Silvina._

JEANNE

Go and have your breakfast, Maurice.MAURICE

_Without turning around._

I don't want any breakfast.Mamma, I'll take off my bandage
tomorrow.JEANNE

_Laughing._

Soldier, is it possible that you are capricious?Jeanne helps Emil Grelieu with his coffee._

JEANNE

That's the way.Is it convenient for you this way, or do you
want to drink it with a spoon?EMIL GRELIEU

Oh, my poor head, it is so weak--

MAURICE

_Going over to him._

Forgive me, father, I'll not do it any more.I was foolishly
excited, but do you know I could not endure it.May I have a
cup, mamma?JEANNE

Yes, this is yours.MAURICE

Yes, I do.EMIL GRELIEU

I am feeling perfectly well today, Jeanne.When is the bandage
to be changed?Count Clairmont will bring his surgeon along with him.MAURICE

Who is that, mamma?JEANNE

You'll see him.But, please, Maurice, when you see him, don't
open your mouth so wide.You have a habit--you open your mouth
and then you forget about it.MAURICE

_Blushing._

You are both looking at me and smiling._The sound of automobiles is heard._

JEANNE

_Rising quickly._

I think they are here.Maurice, this is only Count Clairmont,
don't forget.They will speak with you
about a very, very important matter, Emil, but you must not be
agitated.EMIL GRELIEU

Yes, I know.JEANNE

_Kissing him quickly._

I am going._Exit, almost colliding with Silvina, who is excited._

MAURICE

_Whispering._

Who is it, Silvina?_Silvina makes some answer in mingled delight and awe.Maurice's
face assumes the same expression as Silvina's.Maurice walks quickly to the window and raises his left hand to
his forehead, straightening himself in military fashion.Thus he
stands until the others notice him._

_Enter Jeanne, Count Clairmont, followed by Secretary Lagard and
the Count's adjudant, an elderly General of stem appearance,
with numerous decorations upon his chest.The Count himself
is tall, well built and young, in a modest officer's uniform,
without any medals to signify his high station.He carries
himself very modestly, almost bashfully, but overcoming his
first uneasiness, he speaks warmly and powerfully and freely.All treat him with profound respect._

_Lagard is a strong old man with a leonine gray head.He speaks
simply, his gestures are calm and resolute.It is evident that
he is in the habit of speaking from a platform._

_Jeanne holds a large bouquet of flowers in her hands.Count
Clairmont walks directly toward Grelieu's bedside._

COUNT CLAIRMONT

_Confused._

I have come to shake hands with you, my dear master.Oh, but
do not make a single unnecessary movement, not a single one,
otherwise I shall be very unhappy!EMIL GRELIEU

I am deeply moved, I am happy.COUNT CLAIRMONT

No, no, don't speak that way.John went to the bedroom.Here stands before you only a man
who has learned to think from your books.But see what they have
done to you--look, Lagard!LAGARD

How are you, Grelieu?I, too, want to shake your hand.Today I
am a Secretary by the will of Fate, but yesterday I was only a
physician, and I may congratulate you--you have a kind hand.GENERAL

_Coming forward modestly._

Allow me, too, in the name of this entire army of ours to
express to you our admiration, Monsieur Grelieu!EMIL GRELIEU

I thank you.COUNT CLAIRMONT

But perhaps it is necessary to have a surgeon?JEANNE

He can listen and talk, Count.COUNT CLAIRMONT

_Noticing Maurice, confused._

Oh!Please put down your hand--you are wounded.MAURICE

I am so happy, Count.JEANNE

This is our second son.Our first son, Pierre, was killed at
Liège--

COUNT CLAIRMONT

I dare not console you, Madame Grelieu.Give me your hand,
Maurice.I dare not--

COUNT CLAIRMONT

My dear young man, I, too, am nothing but a soldier now.My children and my wife
have sent you flowers--but where are they?JEANNE

Here they are, Count.COUNT CLAIRMONT

Thank you.But I did not know that your flowers were better than
mine, for my flowers smell of smoke._To Count Clairmont._

His pulse is good.Grelieu, we have come to you not only to
express our sympathy.Through me all the working people of
Belgium are shaking your hand.EMIL GRELIEU

I am proud of it, Lagard.LAGARD

But we are just as proud.Yes; there is something we must
discuss with you.Count Clairmont did not wish to disturb you,
but I said: "Let him die, but before that we must speak to him."EMIL GRELIEU

I am not dying.Maurice, I think you had better go out.COUNT CLAIRMONT

_Quickly._

Oh, no, no.He is your son, Grelieu, and he should be present to
hear what his father will say.Oh, I should have been proud to
have such a father.LAGARD

Our Count is a very fine young man--Pardon me, Count, I have
again upset our--

COUNT CLAIRMONT

That's nothing, I have already grown accustomed to it.Master,
it is necessary for you and your family to leave for Antwerp
today.EMIL GRELIEU

Are our affairs in such a critical condition?LAGARD

What is there to tell?That
horde of Huns is coming upon us like the tide of the sea.Today
they are still there, but tomorrow they will flood your house,
Grelieu.To what can we resort
in our defence?On this side are they, and there is the sea.Only very little is left of Belgium, Grelieu.Very soon there
will be no room even for my beard here.Dull sounds of cannonading are heard in the distance.All turn their eyes to the window._

EMIL GRELIEU

Is that a battle?COUNT CLAIRMONT

_Listening, calmly._

No, that is only the beginning.But tomorrow they will carry
their devilish weapons past your house.Do you know they are
real iron monsters, under whose weight our earth is quaking
and groaning.They are moving slowly, like amphibia that have
crawled out at night from the abyss--but they are moving!Another few days will pass, and they will crawl over to Antwerp,
they will turn their jaws to the city, to the churches--Woe to
Belgium, master!LAGARD

Yes, it is very bad.We are an honest and peaceful people
despising bloodshed, for war is such a stupid affair!And we
should not have had a single soldier long ago were it not for
this accursed neighbor, this den of murderers.GENERAL

And what would we have done without any soldiers, Monsieur
Lagard?LAGARD

And what can we do with soldiers, Monsieur General?COUNT CLAIRMONT

You are wrong, Lagard.With our little army there is still one
possibility--to die as freemen die.But without an army we would
have been bootblacks, Lagard!LAGARD

_Grumbling._

Well, I would not clean anybody's boots.Things are in bad
shape, Grelieu, in very bad shape.And there is but one remedy
left for us--.EMIL GRELIEU

I know.EMIL GRELIEU

The dam._Jeanne and Emil shudder and look at each other with terror in
their eyes._

COUNT CLAIRMONT

You shuddered, you are shuddering, madame.But what am I to do,
what are we to do, we who dare not shudder?JEANNE

Oh, I simply thought of a girl who was trying to find her way to
Lonua.She will never find her way to Lonua.COUNT CLAIRMONT

But what is to be done?The Count steps away to the window
and looks out, nervously twitching his mustaches.Maurice has
moved aside and, as before, stands at attention.Jeanne stands
a little distance away from him, with her shoulder leaning
against the wall, her beautiful pale head thrown back.Lagard is
sitting at the bedside as before, stroking his gray, disheveled
beard.The General is absorbed in gloomy thoughts._

COUNT CLAIRMONT

_Turning around resolutely._

I am a peaceful man, but I can understand why people take up
arms.That means a sword, a gun, explosive contrivances.Fire is killing people, but at the same time it
also gives light.There is something of the
ancient sacrifice in it.cold, dark, silent, covering
with mire, causing bodies to swell--water, which was the
beginning of chaos; water, which is guarding the earth by day
and night in order to rush upon it.My friend, believe me, I am
quite a daring man, but I am afraid of water!Lagard, what would
you say to that?LAGARD

We Belgians have too long been struggling against the water not
to have learned to fear it.JEANNE

But what is more terrible, the Prussians or water?GENERAL

_Bowing._

Madame is right.The Prussians are not more terrible, but they
are worse.It is terrible to release water
from captivity, the beast from its den, nevertheless it is a
better friend to us than the Prussians.I would prefer to see
the whole of Belgium covered with water rather than extend a
hand of reconciliation to a scoundrel!Neither they nor we shall
live to see that, even if the entire Atlantic Ocean rush over
our heads._Brief pause._

GENERAL

But I hope that we shall not come to that.Meanwhile it is
necessary for us to flood only part of our territory.JEANNE

_Her eyes closed, her head hanging down._

And what is to be done with those who could not abandon their
homes, who are deaf, who are sick and alone?_Silence._

JEANNE

There in the fields and in the ditches are the wounded.There
the shadows of people are wandering about, but in their veins
there is still warm blood.Oh, don't
look at me like that, Emil; you had better not listen to what I
am saying.I have spoken so only because my heart is wrung with
pain--it isn't necessary to listen to me at all, Count._Count Clairmont walks over to Grelieu's bed quickly and firmly.At first he speaks confusedly, seeking the right word; then he
speaks ever more boldly and firmly._

COUNT CLAIRMONT

My dear and honored master!We would not have dared to take
from you even a drop of your health, if--if it were not for the
assurance that serving your people may give new strength to your
heroic soul!Yesterday, it was resolved at our council to break
the dams and flood part of our kingdom, but I could not, I dared
not, give my full consent before I knew what you had to say to
this plan.I did not sleep all night long, thinking--oh, how
terrible, how inexpressibly sad my thoughts were!We are the
body, we are the hands, we are the head--while you, Grelieu, you
are the conscience of our people.Blinded by the war, we may
unwillingly, unwittingly, altogether against our will, violate
man-made laws.We are driven to despair, we have no Belgium any longer,
it is trampled by our enemies, but in your breast, Emil Grelieu,
the heart of all Belgium is beating--and your answer will be the
answer of our tormented, blood-stained, unfortunate land!Maurice is crying, looking at his
father._

LAGARD

_Softly._

Bravo, Belgium!The sound of cannonading is heard._

JEANNE

_Softly, to Maurice._

Sit down, Maurice, it is hard for you to stand.MAURICE

Oh, mamma!I am so happy to stand here now--

LAGARD

Now I shall add a few words.As you know, Grelieu, I am a man of
the people.I know the price the people pay for their hard work.I know the cost of all these gardens, orchards and factories
which we shall bury under the water.They have cost us sweat
and health and tears, Grelieu.These are our sufferings which
will be transformed into joy for our children.But as a nation
that loves and respects liberty above its sweat and blood and
tears--as a nation, I say, I would prefer that sea waves should
seethe here over our heads rather than that we should have to
black the boots of the Prussians.And if nothing but islands
remain of Belgium they will be known as "honest islands," and
the islanders will be Belgians as before._All are agitated._

EMIL GRELIEU

And what do the engineers say?GENERAL

_Respectfully waiting for the Count's answer._

Monsieur Grelieu, they say this can be done in two hours.LAGARD

_Grumbles._

In two hours!How many years have we been building
it!GENERAL

The engineers were crying when they said it, Monsieur.LAGARD

The engineers were crying?_Suddenly he bursts into sobs, and slowly takes a handkerchief
from his pocket._

COUNT CLAIRMONT

We are awaiting your answer impatiently, Grelieu.You are
charged with a grave responsibility to your fatherland--to lift
your hand against your own fatherland.EMIL GRELIEU Have we no other defence?Lagard dries
his eyes and slowly answers with a sigh_.JEANNE

_Shaking her head._

No.COUNT CLAIRMONT

_Rapidly._

We must gain time, Grelieu.By the power of all our lives,
thrown in the fields, we cannot stop them._Stamping his foot._

Time, time!We must steal from fate a small part of eternity--a
few days, a week!The Russians are
coming to us from the East.The German steel has already
penetrated to the heart of the French land--and infuriated with
pain, the French eagle is rising over the Germans' bayonets
and is coming toward us!The noble knights of the sea--the
British--are already rushing toward us, and to Belgium are their
powerful arms stretched out over the abyss.Belgium is praying for a few days, for
a few hours!You have already given to Belgium your blood,
Grelieu, and you have the right to lift your hand against your
blood-stained fatherland!_Brief pause._

EMIL GRELIEU

We must break the dams._Curtain_



SCENE V


_Night.A sentinel
on guard at the door leading to the rooms occupied by the
Commander of the army.Two officers on duty are
talking lazily, suffering apparently from the heat.Only from time to time the measured footsteps of
pickets are heard, and muffled voices and angry exclamations._

VON RITZAU

Do you feel sleepy, von Stein?VON STEIN

I don't feel sleepy, but I feel like smoking.RITZAU

A bad habit!STEIN

But what if _he_ should come in?Not a breath of pure air enters the lungs.The air is poisoned with the smell of smoke.We must invent
something against this obnoxious odor.RITZAU

I am not an inventor.First of all it is necessary to wring out
the air as they wring the clothes they wash, and dry it in the
sun.It is so moist, I feel as though I were diving in it.Do
you know whether _he_ is in a good mood today?STEIN

Why, is he subject to moods, good or bad?RITZAU

Great self-restraint!STEIN

Have you ever seen him undressed--or half-dressed?Or have you
ever seen his hair in disorder?RITZAU

He speaks so devilishly little, Stein.STEIN

He prefers to have his cannon speak.It is quite a powerful
voice, isn't it, Ritzau?A tall, handsome officer enters quickly and
goes toward the door leading to the room of the Commander._

Blumenfeld!_The tall officer waves his hand and opens the door cautiously,
ready to make his bow._

He is malting his career!RITZAU

He is a good fellow.STEIN

Would you rather be in Paris?RITZAU

I would prefer any less unbearable country to this.How dull it
must be here in the winter time.STEIN

But we have saved them from dullness for a long time to come.Were you ever in the Montmartre cafés, Ritzau?STEIN

Doesn't one find there a wonderful refinement, culture and
innate elegance?Unfortunately, our Berlin people are far
different.RITZAU

Oh, of course._The tall officer comes out of the door, stepping backward.He
heaves a sigh of relief and sits down near the two officers.Takes out a cigar._

VON BLUMENFELD How are things?STEIN

Then I am going to smoke too.BLUMENFELD

You may smoke.He is not coming out Do you want to hear
important news?BLUMENFELD He laughed just now I

STEIN

Really!BLUMENFELD

Upon my word of honor!And he touched my shoulder with two
fingers--do you understand?STEIN

_With envy._

Of course!I suppose you brought him good news, Blumenfeld?_The military telegraphist, standing at attention, hands
Blumenfeld a folded paper._

TELEGRAPHIST

A radiogram, Lieutenant!BLUMENFELD

Let me have it._Slowly he puts his cigar on the window sill and enters the
Commander's room cautiously._

STEIN

He's a lucky fellow.You may say what you please about luck,
but it exists.Von?--Did you know his
father?RITZAU

I have reason to believe that he had no grandfather at all._Blumenfeld comes out and rejoins the two officers, taking up
his cigar._

STEIN

Another military secret?BLUMENFELD

Of course.Everything that is said and done here is a military
secret.The information we have
received concerns our new siege guns--they are advancing
successfully.BLUMENFELD

Yes, successfully.They have just passed the most difficult part
of the road--you know where the swamps are--

STEIN

Oh, yes.BLUMENFELD

The road could not support the heavy weight and caved in.He ordered a report about the
movement at each and every kilometer.STEIN

Now he will sleep in peace.BLUMENFELD

He never sleeps, von Stein.BLUMENFELD

He never sleeps, von Stein!When he is not listening to
reports or issuing commands, he is thinking.As the personal
correspondent of his Highness I have the honor to know many
things which others are not allowed to know--Oh, gentlemen, he
has a wonderful mind!_Another very young officer enters, stands at attention before
Blumenfeld._

BLUMENFELD

Sit down, von Schauss.BLUMENFELD

He has a German philosophical mind which manages guns as
Leibnitz managed ideas.Everything is preconceived, everything
is prearranged, the movement of our millions of people has been
elaborated into such a remarkable system that Kant himself
would have been proud of it.Gentlemen, we are led forward by
indomitable logic and by an iron will._The officers express their approval by subdued exclamations of
"bravo."_

BLUMENFELD

How can he sleep, if the movement of our armies is but the
movement of parts of his brains!And what is the use of sleep
in general?I sleep very little myself, and I advise you,
gentlemen, not to indulge in foolish sleep.RITZAU

But our human organism requires sleep.BLUMENFELD

Nonsense!Organism--that is something invented by the doctors
who are looking for practice among the fools.I know only my desires and my will, which says:
"Gerhardt, do this!SCHAUSS

Will you permit me to take down your words in my notebook?BLUMENFELD

Please, Schauss._The telegraphist has entered._

ZIGLER

I really don't know, but something strange has happened.It
seems that we are being interfered with, I can't understand
anything.BLUMENFELD

What is it?ZIGLER

We can make out one word, "Water"--but after that all is
incomprehensible.And then again, "Water"--

BLUMENFELD

What water?ZIGLER

He is also surprised and cannot understand.BLUMENFELD

You are a donkey, Zigler!We'll have to call out--

_The Commander comes out.His voice is dry and unimpassioned._

COMMANDER

Blumenfeld!_All jump up, straighten themselves, as if petrified._

What is this?BLUMENFELD

I have not yet investigated it, your Highness.Zigler is
reporting--

COMMANDER

What is it, Zigler?ZIGLER

Your Highness, we are being interfered with.I don't know what
it is, but I can't understand anything.We have been able to
make out only one word--"Water."COMMANDER

_Turning around._

See what it is, Blumenfeld, and report to me--

_Engineer runs in._

ENGINEER

Where is Blumenfeld?COMMANDER

_Pausing._

What has happened there, Kloetz?ENGINEER

They don't respond to our calls, your Highness.COMMANDER

You think something serious has happened?ENGINEER

I dare not think so, your Highness, but I am alarmed.Silence is
the only answer to our most energetic calls._The second telegraphist has entered quietly._

GREITZER

They are silent, your Highness._Brief pause._

COMMANDER

_Again turning to the door._

Please investigate this, Lieutenant._He advances a step to the door, then stops.There is a
commotion behind the windows--a noise and the sound of voices.The noise keeps
growing, turning at times into a loud roar._

What is that?An officer, bareheaded, rushes in
excitedly, his hair disheveled, his face pale._

OFFICER

I want to see his Highness.BLUMENFELD

_Hissing._

You are insane!COMMANDER

Calm yourself, officer.I have the honor to report to you that the
Belgians have burst the dams, and our armies are flooded._With horror._

We must hurry, your Highness!OFFICER

They are flooded, your Highness.COMMANDER

Compose yourself, you are not behaving properly!I am asking you
about our field guns--

OFFICER

They are flooded, your Highness.We must hurry, your Highness, we are in a valley.They have broken the dams; and the water is
rushing this way violently.It is only five kilometers away from
here--and we can hardly--.The beginning of a terrible panic is felt,
embracing the entire camp.All watch impatiently the reddening
face of the Commander._

COMMANDER

But this is--

_He strikes the table with his fist forcibly._

Absurd!_He looks at them with cold fury, but all lower their eyes.The
frightened officer is trembling and gazing at the window.The
lights grow brighter outside--it is evident that a building has
been set on fire.A
dull noise, then the crash of shots is heard.The discipline is
disappearing gradually._

BLUMENFELD

They have gone mad!STEIN

But that can't be the Belgians!RITZAU

They may have availed themselves--

BLUMENFELD

Aren't you ashamed, Stein?I beg of you--

_Suddenly a piercing, wild sound of a horn is heard ordering to
retreat.The roaring sound is growing rapidly._

COMMANDER

_Shots._

Who has commanded to retreat?_Blumenfeld lowers his head._

COMMANDER

This is not the German Army!You are unworthy of being called
soldiers!BLUMENFELD

_Stepping forward, with dignity._

Your Highness!We are not fishes to swim in the water!_Runs out, followed by two or three others.The panic is
growing._

BLUMENFELD

Your Highness!Your life is in danger--your
Highness.Only the
sentinel remains in the position of one petrified._

BLUMENFELD

Your Highness!Your life--I am afraid that
another minute, and it will be too late!COMMANDER

But this is--

_Again strikes the table with his fist._

But this is absurd, Blumenfeld!_Curtain_



SCENE VI


_The same hour of night.In the darkness it is difficult to
discern the silhouettes of the ruined buildings and of the
trees.At the right, a half-destroyed bridge.From time to time the German flashlights are
seen across the dark sky.Near the bridge, an automobile in
which the wounded Emil Grelieu and his son are being carried to
Antwerp.Jeanne and a young physician are with them.Something
has broken down in the automobile and a soldier-chauffeur is
bustling about with a lantern trying to repair it.Langloi
stands near him._


DOCTOR

_Uneasily._

Well?CHAUFFEUR

_Examining._

I don't know yet.DOCTOR

Is it a serious break?CHAUFFEUR

No--I don't know.MAURICE

_From the automobile._

What is it, Doctor?CHAUFFEUR

_Angrily._

We'll start!DOCTOR

I don't know.MAURICE

Shall we stay here long?DOCTOR

_To the chauffeur._

Shall we stay here long?CHAUFFEUR

_Angrily._

How do I know?_Hands the lantern to the doctor._

MAURICE

Then I will come out.JEANNE

You had better stay here, Maurice.MAURICE

No, mother, I am careful._Jumps off and watches the chauffeur at work._

MAURICE

How unfortunate that we are stuck here!CHAUFFEUR

_Grumbling._

A bridge!DOCTOR

Yes, it is unfortunate.MAURICE

_Shrugging his shoulders._

Father did not want to leave.Mamina, do
you think our people are already in Antwerp?JEANNE

Yes, I think so.EMIL GRELIEU

No.It is very pleasant to breathe the fresh air.DOCTOR

_To Maurice._

I think we are still in the region which--

MAURICE

Yes.DOCTOR

_Looking at his watch._

Twenty--a quarter of ten.MAURICE

Then it is a quarter of an hour since the bursting of the dams.Mamma, do you hear, it is a quarter of ten now!JEANNE

Yes, I hear.MAURICE

But it is strange that we haven't heard any explosions.DOCTOR

How can you say that, Monsieur Maurice?MAURICE

I thought that such explosions would be heard a hundred
kilometers away.Our house and our
garden will soon be flooded!I wonder how high the water will
rise.Do you think it will reach up to the second story?CHAUFFEUR

_Grumbling._

I am working.Mamma, see how the searchlights are working.EMIL GRELIEU

Jeanne, lift me a little.JEANNE

My dear, I don't know whether I am allowed to do it.DOCTOR

You may lift him a little, if it isn't very painful.JEANNE

Do you feel any pain?EMIL GRELIEU

No.MAURICE

Father, they are flashing the searchlights across the sky like
madmen._A bluish light is flashed over them, faintly illuminating the
whole group._

MAURICE

Right into my eyes!EMIL GRELIEU

I suppose so.Either they have been warned, or the water is
reaching them by this time.JEANNE

Do you think so, Emil?EMIL GRELIEU

Yes.It seems to me that I hear the sound of the water from that
side._All listen and look in the direction from which the noise came._

DOCTOR

_Uneasily._

How unpleasant this is!MAURICE

Father, it seems to me I hear voices.Listen--it sounds as
though they are crying there.Father, the
Prussians are crying._A distant, dull roaring of a crowd is heard.The searchlights are
swaying from side to side._

EMIL GRELIEU

It is they.DOCTOR

If we don't start in a quarter of an hour--

EMIL GRELIEU

In half an hour, Doctor.MAURICE

Father, how beautiful and how terrible it is!JEANNE

What is it?MAURICE

I want to kiss it.JEANNE

What a foolish little boy you are, Maurice.MAURICE

Monsieur Langloi said that in three days from now I may remove
my bandage.Just think of it, in three days I shall be able to
take up my gun again!...The
chauffeur and the doctor draw their revolvers.A figure appears
from the field, approaching from one of the ditches.A peasant,
wounded in the leg, comes up slowly, leaning upon a cane._

MAURICE

Who is there?PEASANT

Our own, our own.MAURICE

Yes, we're going to the city.Our car has broken down, we're
repairing it.PEASANT

What am I doing here?They also look at him
attentively, by the light of the lantern._

CHAUFFEUR

Give me the light!PEASANT

Are you carrying a wounded man?I
cannot walk, it is very hard.I lay there in the ditch and when I heard you
speak French I crawled out.DOCTOR

How were you wounded?PEASANT

I was walking in the field and they shot me.They must have
thought I was a rabbit._Laughs hoarsely._

They must have thought I was a rabbit.What is the news,
gentlemen?MAURICE

Don't you know?PEASANT

What can I know?I lay there and looked at the sky--that's all I
know.Just look at it, I have been watching
it all the time.What is that I see in the sky, eh?EMIL GRELIEU

Sit down near us.MAURICE

Listen, sit down here.They are
crying there--the Prussians!They must have learned of
it by this time.Listen, it is so far, and yet we can hear!_The peasant laughs hoarsely._

MAURICE

Sit down, right here, the automobile is large.CHAUFFEUR

_Muttering._

Sit down, sit down!DOCTOR

_Uneasily._

What is it?MAURICE

What an unfortunate mishap!JEANNE

_Agitated._

They shot you like a rabbit?Do you hear, Emil--they thought a
rabbit was running!_She laughs loudly, the peasant also laughs._

PEASANT

I look like a rabbit!JEANNE

Do you hear, Emil?_Laughs._

EMIL GRELIEU

Jeanne!JEANNE

It makes me laugh--it seems so comical to me that they mistake
us for rabbits.And now, what are we now--water rats?Emil, just
picture to yourself, water rats in an automobile!JEANNE

No, no, I am not laughing any more, Maurice!_Laughs._

And what else are we?PEASANT

_Laughs._

And now we must hide in the ground--

JEANNE

_In the same tone._

And they will remain on the ground?EMIL GRELIEU

My dear!MAURICE

_To the doctor._

Listen, you must do something.Mamma, we are starting directly, my dear!JEANNE

No, never mind, I am not laughing any more.Maurice, I simply felt like talking.I
was forever silent, but just now I felt like chattering.Emil,
I am not disturbing you with my talk, am I?Why is the water so
quiet, Emil?It was the King who said, "The water is silent,"
was it not?But I should like to see it roar, crash like
thunder.... No, I cannot, I cannot bear this silence!Ah, why is
it so quiet--I cannot bear it!MAURICE

_To the chauffeur._

My dear fellow, please hurry up!CHAUFFEUR

Yes, yes!JEANNE

_Suddenly cries, threatening._

But I cannot bear it!_Covers her mouth with her hands; sobs._

I cannot!EMIL GRELIEU

All will end well, Jeanne.JEANNE

_Sobbing, but calming herself somewhat._

I cannot bear it!EMIL GRELIEU

All will end well, Jeanne!I am suffering, but I know this, Jeanne!CHAUFFEUR

In a moment, in a moment.EMIL GRELIEU

_Faintly._

Jeanne!JEANNE

Yes, yes, I know.... Forgive me, forgive me, I will soon--

_A loud, somewhat hoarse voice of a girl comes from the dark._

GIRL

Tell me how I can find my way to Lonua!_Exclamations of surprise._

MAURICE

Who is that?JEANNE

Emil, it is that girl!_Laughs._

She is also like a rabbit!DOCTOR

_Grumbles._

What is it, what is it--Who?Her dress is torn, her eyes look
wild.The peasant is laughing._

PEASANT

She is here again?CHAUFFEUR

Let me have the light!GIRL

_Loudly._

How can I find my way to Lonua?EMIL GRELIEU

Maurice, you must stop her!Doctor, you--

CHAUFFEUR

Put down the lantern!GIRL

_Shouts._

Hands off!No, no, you will not dare--

MAURICE

You can't catch her--

_The girl runs away._

EMIL GRELIEU

Doctor, you must catch her!She will perish here, quick--

_She runs away.The doctor follows her in the dark._

PEASANT

She asked me, too, how to go to Lonua._The girl's voice resounds in the dark and then there is
silence._

EMIL GRELIEU

You must catch her!MAURICE

But how, father?Jeanne
breaks into muffled laughter._

MAURICE

_Mutters._

Now he is gone!CHAUFFEUR

_Triumphantly._

Take your seats!MAURICE

But the doctor isn't here.CHAUFFEUR

Let us call him._Maurice and the chauffeur call: "Doctor!"_

CHAUFFEUR

_Angrily._

I must deliver Monsieur Grelieu, and I will deliver him.MAURICE

_Shouts._

Langloi!_A faint echo in the distance._

Come!_The response is nearer._

PEASANT

He did not catch her.She asked me, too,
about the road to Lonua._Laughs._

There are many like her now.EMIL GRELIEU

_Imploringly._

Jeanne!JEANNE

But I cannot, Emil.I used
to understand, I used to understand, but now--Where is Pierre?_Firmly._

Where is Pierre?MAURICE

Oh, will he be here soon?Mother dear, we'll start in a moment!JEANNE

Yes, yes, we'll start in a moment!Why such a dream, why such a dream?_A mice from the darkness, quite near._

JEANNE

_Frightened._

Who is shouting?What a strange dream, what a terrible,
terrible, terrible dream._Lowering her voice._

I cannot--why are you torturing me?EMIL GRELIEU

He is dead, Jeanne!EMIL GRELIEU

He is dead, Jeanne.But I swear to you by God, Jeanne!--Belgium
will live.Weep, sob, you are a mother.I too am crying with
you--But I swear by God: Belgium will live!God has given me the
light to see, and I can see.A new Spring will come here, the trees will be covered with
blossoms--I swear to you, Jeanne, they will be covered with
blossoms!And mothers will caress their children, and the sun
will shine upon their heads, upon their golden-haired little
heads!I see my nation: Here it is advancing with palm
leaves to meet God who has come to earth again.Weep, Jeanne,
you are a mother!Weep, unfortunate mother--God weeps with you.But there will be happy mothers here again--I see a new world,
Jeanne, I see a new life!Surely Professor Scotch had done
himself proud, and the termination of the affair had been quite
unexpected by the boys.THE PROFESSOR'S COURAGE.Colonel Vallier seemed utterly crestfallen and subdued, but Rolf
Raymond's face was dark with anger, as he harshly said:

"Now that this foolishness is over, we will proceed to business.""The quicker you proceed the better
satisfied we will be.Rolf turned fiercely on Frank, almost snarling:

"You must have been at the bottom of it all!Frank was astonished, as his face plainly showed."It is useless to pretend that you do not know.You must have found an
opportunity to communicate with her somehow, although how you
accomplished it is more than I understand."If you do not immediately tell us where she is, you will find
yourself in serious trouble."You know I mean the Queen of Flowers.""And you do not know what has become of her?"No one saw
her leave, but she went.""That will not go with us, Merriwell, for we hastened to the place where
she is stopping with her father, and she was not there, nor had he seen
her.He cannot live long, and this blow will hasten the end.Take my advice and give her up at once, unless you wish to
get into trouble of a most serious nature."Frank saw that Raymond actually believed he knew what had become of the
Flower Queen."Look here," came swiftly from the boy's lips, "it is plain this is no
time to waste words.I do not know what has become of the Flower Queen,
that is straight.I did know she had disappeared from the ballroom, but
I supposed she had returned to her home.I do not know her name as yet,
although she knows mine.If anything has happened to her, I am not
responsible; but I take a great interest in her, and I am ready and
eager to be of assistance to her.Tell me her name, as that will aid
me."Rolf Raymond could not doubt Frank's words, for honesty was written on
the boy's face."Her name," he said--"her name is--for you to learn."His taunting laugh brought the warm blood to Frank's face."I'll learn it, no thanks to
you.More than that, if she needs my aid, she shall have it.It strikes
me that she may have fled of her own accord to escape being persecuted
by you.If so----"

"What then?"Colonel Vallier may have settled his trouble with
Professor Scotch, but mine is not settled with you.""We may yet meet on the field of honor.""I shall be pleased to accommodate you," flashed Frank; "and the sooner,
the better it will satisfy me."cried Barney Mulloy, admiringly."You can do th'
spalpane, Frankie, at any old thing he'll name!""The disappearance of Miss ----, the Flower Queen, prevents the setting
of a time and place," said Raymond, passionately; "but you shall be
waited on as soon as she is found.Until then I must let nothing
interfere with my search for her.""Very good; that is satisfactory to me, and I will do my best to help
find her for you.Now, if your business is quite over, gentlemen, your
room would give us much more pleasure than your company."Not another word did Raymond or Vallier say, but they strode stiffly to
the door and bowed themselves out.Then both the boys turned on Professor Scotch, to find he had collapsed
into a chair, and seemed on the point of swooning."Professor," cried Frank, "I want to congratulate you!That was the best
piece of work you ever did in all your life.""Profissor," exclaimed Barney, "ye're a jewil!Av inny wan iver says you
lack nerve, may Oi be bitten by th' wurrust shnake in Oireland av Oi
don't break his head!"gasped the professor, "fan me!"You were a man, professor, and you showed Colonel Vallier that you were
utterly reckless."Colonel Vallier didn't know that.It was plain, he believed you a
desperate slugger, and he wilted immediately.""But I can't understand how I came to do such a thing.Till their
unwarranted intrusion--till I collided with the colonel--I was in terror
for my life.The moment we collided I seemed to forget that I was
scared, and I remembered only that I was mad.""And you seemed more than eager for a scrap.""Ye samed doying fer a bit av a row, profissor."If he'd struck you, you'd been so mad that nothing could have
stopped you.You would have waded into him, and given him the worst
thrashing he ever received.""Thot's pwhat ye would, profissor, sure as fate."Scotch began to revive, and the words of the boys convinced him that he
was really a very brave man, and had done a most daring thing.Little by
little, he began to swell, like a toad."I don't know but you're right," he said, stiffening up."I was utterly
reckless and desperate at the time.""Profissor, ye're a bad mon ter buck against.""That is a fact that has not been generally known, but, having cowed one
of the most desperate duelists in the South, and forced him to
apologize, I presume I have a right to make some pretensions.""Ye've made a riccord fer yersilf.""And a record to be proud of," crowed the little man, getting on his
feet and beginning to strut, forgetful of the fact that he was in his
night robe and presented a most ludicrous appearance."The events of
this evening shall become a part of history.Future generations shall
regard me as one of the most nervy and daring men of my age.And really,
I don't know but I am.What's the use of being a coward when you can be
a hero just as well.Boys, this adventure has made a different man of
me.Hereafter, you will see that I'll not quail in the face of the most
deadly dangers.I'll even dare to walk up to the mouth of a cannon--if I
know it isn't loaded."The boys were forced to laugh at his bantam-like appearance, but, for
all of the queer twist he had given his last expression, the professor
seemed very serious, and it was plain that he had begun to regard
himself with admiration."Think, boys," he cried--"think of my offer to fight him with pistols
across yonder narrow table!""That was a stroke of genius, professor," declared Frank."That broke
Colonel Vallier up more than anything else.""Of course you did not mean to actually fight him that way?""Well, I don't know," swelled the little man."I was reckless then, and
I didn't care for anything.""This other matter they spoke of worries me," he said."I can't
understand what has happened to the Queen of Flowers.""Ye mustn't let thot worry yez, me b'y.""She may be home by this toime.""And she may be in desperate need of a helping hand.""Av she is, Oi dunno how ye can hilp her, Frankie.""It would be a most daring thing to do, as she is so well known; but
there are daring and desperate ruffians in New Orleans.""Oi think ye're roight, me b'y.""It may be that she has been persecuted so that she fled of her own
accord, and yet I hardly think that is true.""If it is not true, surely she is in trouble.""Oh, I can't remain quietly here, knowing she may need aid!""Sure, me b'y, Oi'm wid yez firrust, larrust, an' all th' toime!"He returned to bed, and the boys left
the hotel."I don't know," replied Frank, helplessly."There is not one chance in
millions of finding the lost Flower Queen, but I feel that I must move
about.We'll visit the old French quarter by night.I have been there in
the daytime, and I'd like to see how it looks at night.And so they made their way to the French quarter, crossing Canal Street
and turning into a quiet, narrow way, that soon brought them to a region
of architectural decrepitude.The streets of this section were not overlighted, and seemed very silent
and lonely, as, at this particular time, the greater part of the
inhabitants of the quarter were away to the scenes of pleasure.There were queer balconies on
every hand, the stores were mere shops, all of them now closed, and many
windows were nailed up.Rust and decay were on all sides, and yet there
was something impressive in the almost Oriental squalor of the place."It sames loike we'd left th' city intoirely for another place, so it
does," muttered Barney."New Orleans seems like a human being
with two personalities.For me this is the most interesting part of the
city; but commerce is beginning to crowd in here, and the time is coming
when the French quarter will cease to be an attraction for New Orleans.""Well, we'll get our look at it before it is gone intoirely."A few dark figures were moving silently along the streets.The night was
warm, and the shutters of the balcony windows were opened to admit air.At a corner they halted, and, of a sudden, Frank clutched the arm of his
companion, whispering:

"Look--see that man?""Well, I did, and I do not believe I am mistaken in thinking I have seen
it before.""In the alley where I was trapped by Manuel Mazaro and his gang.""It wur darruk in there, Frankie.""But I fired my revolver, and by the flash I saw a face.""It was the face of the man who just passed beneath this light.""An' pwhat av thot, Frankie?""He might lead me to Manuel Mazaro.""Pwhat do yez want to see thot spalpane fer?""Why I was attacked, and the object of the attack."It sure wur a case av intinded robbery, me b'y."He knows all about Rolf
Raymond and Colonel Vallier.""Rolf Raymond and Colonel Vallier know a great deal about the lost
Flower Queen.It is possible Mazaro knows something of her.Come on,
Barney; we'll follow that man.""Jist as ye say, me lad.""Take the other side of the street, and keep him in sight, but do not
seem to be following him."They separated, and both kept in sight of the man, who did not seem to
fear pursuit or dream any one was shadowing him.He led them straight to an antiquated story and a half Creole cottage,
shaded by a large willow tree, the branches of which touched the sides
and swept the round tiles of the roof.The foliage of the old tree half
concealed the discolored stucco, which was dropping off in many places.Over the door was a sign which announced that it was a cafe.The door
was open, and, in the first room could be seen some men who were eating
and drinking at a table.The man the boys had followed entered the cottage, passed through the
first room, speaking to the men at the table, and disappeared into the
room beyond."Are yez goin' to folly him, Frankie, b'y?""There's no tellin' pwhat koind av a nest ye will get inther.""I'll have to take my chances on that.""Thin Oi'm wid yez.""No, I want you to remain outside, so you will be on hand in case I need
air.""How'll I know ye nade it?""Av Oi do, you'll see Barney Mulloy comin' loike a cyclone.""I know I may depend on you, and I know this may be a nest of assassins.These Spaniards are hot-blooded fellows, and they make dangerous
rascals."Frank looked at his revolver, to make sure it was in perfect working
order, dropped it into the side pocket of his coat, and walked boldly
into the cottage cafe.The men in the front room stared at him in surprise, but he did not seem
to give them a glance, walking straight through into the next room.There he saw two Spanish-looking fellows talking in low tones over a
table, on which drinks were setting.One of them was the man he had followed.They were surprised to see the boy coolly walk into the room, and
advance without hesitation to their table.The one Frank had followed seemed to recognize the lad, and he appeared
startled and somewhat alarmed.With the greatest politeness, Frank touched his cap, asking:

"Senor, do you know Manuel Mazaro?"The fellow scowled, and hesitated, and then retorted:

"What if I do?"At one side of the room was a door, opening on a dark flight of stairs.Through this doorway and up the stairs the fellow disappeared.Frank sat down at the table, feeling the revolver in the side pocket of
his coat.The other man did not attempt to make any conversation.In a few minutes the one who had ascended the stairs reappeared."Senor Mazaro will soon be down," he announced.Then he sat at the table, and resumed conversation with his companion,
speaking in Spanish, and not even seeming to hear the "thank you" from
Frank.It was not long before Mazaro appeared, and he came forward without
hesitation, smiling serenely, as if delighted to see the boy.he cried, "yo' be not harm in de scrape what we run into?""I was not harmed, no, thanks to you, Mazaro," said the boy, coolly."It
is a wonder that I came out with a whole skin.""Senor, you do not blame me fo' dat?I deed not know-a it--I deed not
know-a de robbares were there.""Mazaro, you are a very good liar, but it will not work with me."The Spaniard showed his teeth, and fell back a step."De young senor speak-a ver' plain," he said.Mazaro, we may as well understand each other first as
last.You are a scoundrel, and you're out for the dollars.Now, it is
possible you can make more money by serving me than in any other way.If
you can help me, I will pay you well."Mazaro looked ready to sink a knife into Frank's heart a moment before,
but he suddenly thawed.With the utmost politeness, he said:

"I do not think-a I know what de senor mean.If he speak-a litt'l
plainer, mebbe I ondarstan'."The Spaniard took a seat at the table."Now," said Frank, quietly, "order what you wish to drink, and I will
pay for it.I never drink myself, and I never carry much money with me
nights, but I have enough to pay for your drink.""De senor is ver' kind," bowed Manuel, and he ordered a drink, which was
brought by a villainous-looking old woman.Frank paid, and, when Mazaro was sipping the liquid, he leaned forward
and said:

"Senor Mazaro, you know Rolf Raymond?""I know of her, senor; I see her to-day."She has disappeared, and you know what has become of
her."It was a chance shot, but Frank saw it went home.Mazaro changed color, and then he regained his composure."Senor," he said, smoothly, "I know-a not what made you t'ink dat.""Wondareful--ver' wondareful," purred the Spaniard, in mock admiration."You give-a me great s'prise."Frank was angry, but he held himself in restraint, appearing cool.Dat show yo' have-a ver' gre't eye, senor.""Why should I do dat when you know-a so much?"I dare ver' many thing you do not know.""Look here, man," said Frank, leaning toward the Spaniard; "are you
aware that you may get yourself into serious trouble?Are you aware that
kidnaping is an offense that makes you a criminal of the worst sort, and
for which you might be sent up for twenty years, at least?""It is eeze to talk, but dat is not proof," he said.exclaimed the boy, his anger getting the better of him
for the moment."I have a mind to convey my suspicions to the police,
and then----"

"An' den what, senor?you talk ver' bol' fo' boy like you.Well, see; if I snappa my fingare, quick like a flash you
get a knife 'tween your shouldares.He looked swiftly around, and saw the
black eyes of the other two men were fastened upon him, and he knew
they were ready to obey Mazaro's signal."W'at yo' t'ink-a, senor?""That is very well," came calmly from Frank's lips."If I were to give
the signal my friends would rush in here to my aid.If you stab me, make
sure the knife goes through my heart with the first stroke, so there
will be little chance that I'll cry out.""Den you have-a friends near, ha?Now we undarestan' each odder.Yo' have-a some more to say?""I have told you that you might find it profitable to serve me.""No dirty work--no throat-cutting.W'at yo' want-a know?""I want to know who the Queen of Flowers is.""Yes; I want to know where she is, and you can tell me.""Yo' say dat, but yo' can't prove it.I don't say anyt'ing, senor.'Bo't
how much yo' pay fo' that info'mation, ha?""Fair price notting; I want good-a price.Yo' don' have-a de mon' enough.""I am a Yankee, from the North, and I will make a
trade with you.""All-a right, but I don't admit I know anyt'ing."Manuel leaned back in his chair, lazily and deftly rolling a cigarette,
which he lighted.Frank watched this piece of business, thinking of the
best manner of approaching the fellow.And then something happened that electrified every one within the cafe.Somewhere above there came the sound of blows, and a crashing,
splintering sound, as of breaking wood.Then a shriek ran through the
building.It was the voice of a female in great terror and distress.Mazaro ground a curse through his white teeth, and leaped to his feet,
but Frank was on his feet quite as quickly.Frank's arm had shot out, and his hard fist struck the Spaniard
under the ear, sending the fellow flying through the air and up against
the wall with terrible force.From the wall Mazaro dropped, limp and
groaning, to the floor.Like a flash, the nervy youth flung the table against the downcast
wretch's companions, making them reel.Then Frank leaped toward the stairs, up which he bounded like a deer.Near the head of the stairs a light shone out through a broken panel in
a door, and on this door Frank knew the blows he had heard must have
fallen.Within this room the boy fancied he could hear sounds of a desperate
struggle.Behind him the desperadoes were rallying, cursing hoarsely, and crying
to each other.They were coming, and the lad on the stairs knew they
would come armed to the teeth.All the chivalry in his nature was aroused.His blood was leaping and
tingling in his veins, and he felt able to cope with a hundred foes.Straight toward the broken door he leaped, and his hand found the knob,
but it refused to yield at his touch.He hurled himself against the door, but it remained firm.There were feet on the stairs; the desperadoes were coming.At that moment he looked into the room through the break in the panel,
and he saw a girl struggling with all her strength in the hands of a
man.The man was trying to hold a hand over her mouth to keep her from
crying out again, while a torrent of angry Spanish words poured in a
hissing sound from his bearded lips.As Frank looked the girl tore the fellow's hand from her lips, and her
cry for help again rang out.The wretch lifted his fist to strike her senseless, but the blow did not
fall.Frank was a remarkably good shot, and his revolver was in his hand.That
hand was flung upward to the opening in the panel, and he fired into the
room.The burst of smoke kept him from seeing the result of the shot, but he
heard a hoarse roar of pain from the man, and he knew he had not missed.He had fired at the fellow's wrist, and the bullet had shattered it.But now the ruffians who were coming furiously up the stairs demanded
his attention."Stop where you are, or I shall open fire on you!"He could see them, and he saw the foremost lift his hand.Then there was
a burst of flame before Frank's eyes, and he staggered backward, feeling
a bullet near his cheek.Not till that moment did he realize what a trap he was in, and how
desperate was his situation.The smell of burned powder was in his nostrils, the fire of battle
gleamed from his eyes.The weapon in Frank's hand spoke again, and once more he found his game,
for the leading ruffian, having almost reached the head of the stairs,
flung up his arms, with a gurgling sound, and toppled backward upon
those who were following.Down the stairs they all tumbled, falling in a heap at the bottom, where
they struggled, squirmed, and shouted."This
has turned out to be a real lively night."Frank was a lad who never deliberately sought danger for danger's sake,
but when his blood was aroused, he entirely forgot to be afraid, and he
felt a wild thrill of joy when in the greatest peril.For the time, he had entirely forgotten the existence of Barney Mulloy,
but now he remembered that the Irish lad had waited outside the cottage
cafe."He has heard the rumpus," said Frank, aloud."Whist, be aisy, me lad!"retorted the familiar voice of the Irish
youth."Oi'm wid yez to th' ind!""How in the world did you get here?"cried our hero, in great
astonishment."Oi climbed the tray, me b'y.""Th' willey tray as shtands forninst th' corner av th' house, Frankie.""But that does not explain how you came here at my side.""There was a windy open, an' Oi shlipped in by th' windy.""Well, you're a dandy, Barney!""An' ye're a birrud, Frankie.What koind av a muss hiv ye dhropped into
now, Oi'd loike ter know?"I heard a girl shout for help, and I knocked over
two or three chaps, Mazaro included, on my way to her aid.""Where is she now, b'y?""In here," said Frank, pointing through the broken panel."She is the
missing Queen of Flowers!Then Frank obtained a fair look at the girl's face, staggered, clutched
Barney, and shouted:

"Look!It is not strange she knew me, for we both know her!While attending school at Fardale Military Academy, Frank had met and
become acquainted with a charming girl by the name of Inza Burrage.They
had been very friendly--more than friendly; in a boy and girl way, they
were lovers.After leaving Fardale and starting to travel, Frank had written to Inza,
and she had answered.For a time the correspondence had continued, but,
at last, Frank had failed to receive any answers to his letters.He
wrote again and again, but never a line came from Inza, and he finally
decided she had grown tired of him, and had taken this method of
dropping him.Frank was proud and sensitive, and he resolved to forget Inza.This was
not easy, but he thought of her as little as possible, and never spoke
of her to any one.And now he had met her in this remarkable manner.Some fellow had
written him from Fardale that Mr.Burrage had moved from the place, but
no one seemed to know whither he had gone.Frank had not dreamed of
seeing Inza in New Orleans, but she was the mysterious Queen of Flowers,
and, for some reason, she was in trouble and peril.Although dazed by his astonishing discovery, the boy quickly recovered,
and he felt that he could battle with a hundred ruffians in the defense
of the girl beyond the broken door.Barney Mulloy seemed no less astonished than Frank.At that moment, however, the ruffian whose wrist Frank had broken,
leaped upon the girl and grasped her with his uninjured arm."_Carramba!_" he snarled.You never git-a
out with whole skin!"cried Frank, pointing his revolver at the
fellow--"drop her, or I'll put a bullet through your head, instead of
your wrist!"He held the struggling girl before him as a shield.Like a raging lion, Frank tore at the panel.The man with the girl swiftly moved back to a door at the farther side
of the room.This door he had already unfastened and flung open."_Adios!_" he cried, derisively."Some time I square wid you for my
hand-a!_Adios!_"

"Th' spalpanes are comin' up th' shtairs again, Frankie!"cried Barney,
in the ear of the desperate boy at the door.Frank did not seem to hear; he was striving to break the stout panel so
that he could force his way through the opening.they're coming up th' shtairs!""They'll make mince mate av us!""Well, folly, av ye want to!""Oi'm goin' to
shtop th' gang!"Out came a long strip,
which Frank flung upon the floor.Barney caught it up and whirled toward the stairs.The desperadoes were coming with a rush--they were well up the stairs.In another moment the leading ruffian would have reached the second
floor."Get back, ye gossoons!The strip of heavy wood in Barney's hands whirled through the air, and
came down with a resounding crack on the head of the leader.The fellows had not learned caution by the fate of the first man to
climb the stairs, and they were following their second leader as close
as possible.Barney had a strong arm, and he struck the fellow with all his power.Well it was for the ruffian that the heavy wood was not very thick, else
he would have had a broken head.Back he toppled upon the one behind, and that one made a vain attempt to
support him.The dead weight was too much, and the second fell, again
sweeping the whole lot to the foot of the stairs.shouted the Irish boy, in wild delight."This is th' koind av a
picnic pwhat Oi admire!It's Barney Mulloy ye're
runnin' up against, an' begobs!he's good fer th' whole crowd av yez!"At the foot of the stairs there was a writhing, wrangling, snarling mass
of human beings; at the head of the stairs was a young Irishman who
laughed and crowed and flourished the cudgel of wood in his hands.Barney, feeling his blood leaping joyously in his veins, felt like
singing, and so he began to warble a "fighting song," over and over
inviting his enemies to come on.In the meantime Frank had made an opening large enough to force his body
through.he cried, attracting the other boy's attention by a
sharp blow."Frankie, ye're muddled, an' Oi nivver saw yez so before.""Nivver a bit would it do for us both to go in there, fer th' craythers
moight hiv us in a thrap."You stay here and hold the ruffians
back.Oi hiv an illigant shillaly
here, an' thot's all Oi nade, unliss ye have two revolvers.""Thin kape it, me b'y, fer ye'll nade it before ye save the lass, Oi
think.""I think you may be right, Barney."It's nivver a bit Oi worry about thot, Frankie.As soon as he was within the
room he ran for the door through which the ruffian had dragged Inza.Frank knew that the fellow might be waiting just beyond the door, knife
in hand, and he sprang through with his revolver held ready for instant
use.There was no light in the room, but the light from the lamp in the
adjoining room shone in at the doorway.Frank looked around, and, to his dismay, he could see no one.It was not long before he was convinced that the room was empty of any
living being save himself.The Spanish ruffian and the unfortunate girl had disappeared."Oh, confound the infernal luck!"But I did my best, and I followed as soon as possible."Then he remembered that he had promised Inza he would save her, and it
wrung a groan from his lips.he cried, beginning to look for a door that
led from the room.By this time he was accustomed to the dim light, and he saw a door.In a
twinkling he had tried it, but found it was locked or bolted on the
farther side."The fellow had little time and no hands to lock a door.He must, for this is the only door to the room, save the
one by which I entered.He went out this way, and I will follow!"Retreating to the farther side of the room, Frank made a run and plunged
against the door.It was bolted on the farther side, and the shock snapped the iron bolt
as if it had been a pipe stem.Open flew the door, and Frank went reeling through, revolver in
hand, somewhat dazed, but still determined and fierce as a young tiger.At a glance he saw he was in a small room, with two doors standing
open--the one he had just broken down and another.Through this other he
leaped, and found himself in a long passage, at the farther end of which
Barney Mulloy was still guarding the head of the stairs, once more
singing the wild "fighting song."Not a trace of the ruffian or the kidnaped girl could Frank see.he palpitated, mystified and awe-stricken.That was a question he could not answer for a moment, and then----

"The window in that room!It must
be the one by which the wretch fled with Inza!"Back into the room he had just left he leaped.Two bounds carried him to
the window, against which brushed the branch of the old willow tree.The exultant words came in a panting whisper from his lips as he saw
some dark figures on the ground beneath the tree.He was sure he saw a
female form among them, and his ears did not deceive him, for he heard
at last a smothered appeal for help.Then two other forms rushed out of the shadows and fell upon the men
beneath the tree, striking right and left!There was a short, fierce struggle, a woman's shriek, the death groan of
a stricken man, a pistol shot, and scattering forms.Without pausing to measure the distance to the ground, Frank sprang over
the window sill and dropped.Like a cat, Frank alighted on his feet, and he was ready for anything
the moment he struck the ground.There was no longer any fighting beneath the tree.The struggling mass
had melted to two dark figures, one of which was stretched on the
ground, while the other bent over it.Frank sprang forward and caught the kneeling one by the shoulder.Then the boy recovered, again demanding:

"What has become of Miss Burrage?The colonel looked around in a dazed way, slowly saying:

"Yes, sah, she was here, fo' Mistah Raymon' heard her voice, and he
rushed in to save her."The colonel motioned toward the silent form on the ground, and Frank
bent forward to peer into the white, ghastly face."He was stabbed at the ver' start, sah."We were searching fo' Manuel Mazaro, sah.Mistah Raymon' did not trus'
the rascal, and he believed Mazaro might know something about Miss
Burrage.Mazaro is ready fo' anything, and he knew big money would be
offered fo' the recovery of the young lady, so he must have kidnaped
her.We knew where to find Mazaro, though he did not suppose so, and we
came here.As we approached, we saw some figures beneath this tree.Then
we heard a feminine cry fo' help, and we rushed in here, sah.That's
all, except that Mistah Raymon' rushed to his death, and the rascals
have escaped.""They have escaped with the girl--carried her away!""But they will not dare keep her now, sah.""Because they are known, and the entire police of the city will be after
them.""I don't know, but I do not think they will harm her, sah.""His affianced bride, sah.""Well, she will not marry him now," said Frank; "but I am truly sorry
that the fellow was killed in such a dastardly manner.""So am I, sah," confessed the queer colonel."He has been ver' valuable
to me.It will be a long time before I find another like him."Frank did not understand that remark then, but he did afterward, when he
was told that Colonel Vallier was a professional card sharp, and had
bled Rolf Raymond for many thousands of dollars.This explained the
singular friendship between the sharp old rascal and the young man.More than that, Frank afterward learned that Colonel Vallier was not a
commissioned officer, had never been such, but had assumed the title.In many ways the man tried to imitate the Southern gentleman of the old
school, but, as he was not a gentleman at heart, he was a sad failure.All at once Frank remembered Barney, and that he had promised to stand
by the Irish lad."Barney Mulloy is in there with that gang of
raging wolves!""Nivver a bit av it, Frankie," chirped a cheerful voice.Down from the tree swung the fighting Irish lad, dropping beside his
comrade."Th' craythers didn't feel loike comin' up th' shtairs inny more,"
Barney explained."They seemed to hiv enough sport fer wan avenin'.Somebody shouted somethin' to thim, an' away they wint out doors, so I
took to lookin' fer yez, me b'y.""Oi looked out av th' windy, an' hearrud yer voice.Thot's whoy Oi came
down.Phat has happened out here, Oi dunno?""Well, it's the avil wan's oun luck!""But av we shtay
here, Frankie, it's pinched we'll be by the police as will be afther
getting around boy and boy."Inza----"

"She ain't here inny more, me lad, an' so ye moight as well go."Swiftly and silently they slipped away, leaving Colonel Vallier with the
dead youth.Frank was feeling disgusted and desperate, and he expressed himself
freely as they made their way along the streets."It is voile luck," admitted Barney; "but we did our bist, an' it's a
jolly good foight we had.Frankie, we make a whole tame, wid a litthle
yaller dog under th' waggin.""Oh, I can't think of anything but Inza, Inza, Inza!Out of a dark shadow timidly came a female figure.With a cry of joy, Frank sprang forward, and clasped her in his arms,
lifting her off her feet and covering her face, eyes and mouth with
kisses, while he cried:

"Inza, girl!We fought like fiends to save you, and we
thought we had failed.But now----"

"You did your best, Frank, but that dreadful wretch dragged me to the
window and dropped me into the arms of a monster who was waiting below.I made up my mind that I would keep my
senses and try to escape.The man jumped after me, and then a signal was
given that brought the others from the building.They were going to wrap
something about my head when I got my mouth free and cried out.There was fighting, and I caught a
glimpse of the face of Rolf Raymond.I
felt myself free, and I ran, ran, ran, till I fell here from exhaustion,
and here I lay till I heard your voice.cried Barney, "it's a bit ago we were ravin' at our
luck: It's givin' thanks we should be this minute."Inza is safe, Rolf Raymond
is dead, and----"

A cry broke from the lips of the girl."But you were affianced to him?"My father and Roderick Raymond, who is a <DW36> and
has not many more years to live, were schoolmates and friends in their
younger days.Roderick Raymond has made a vast fortune, and in his old
age he set his heart upon having his son marry the daughter of his
former friend and partner.It seems that, when they first got married,
father and Raymond declared, in case the child of one was a boy, and
that of the other was a girl, that their children should marry.Raymond's only son, as I am an only daughter.Believing himself
ready to die, Roderick Raymond sent to my father and reminded him of
their agreement.As you know, father is not very wealthy, and he is now
an invalid.His mind is not strong, and he became convinced that it was
his duty to see that I married Rolf Raymond.He set his mind on it, and
all my pleadings were in vain.He brought me here to the South, and I
saw Rolf.I disliked him violently the moment my eyes rested on him,
but he seemed to fall madly in love with me.He was fiercely jealous of
me, and watched me as a dog watches its mistress.I could not escape
him, and I was becoming entangled deeper and deeper when you appeared.I
knew you, and I was determined to see you again--to ask you to save me.I took part in the parade to-night, and went to the ballroom.Rolf
followed me about so that I became disgusted and slipped from the room,
intending to return home alone.Barely had I left the room when a fellow
whispered in my ear that he had been sent there by you--that I was to go
with him, and he would take me to you.I entered a closed carriage, and
I was brought to the place where you found me a captive in the hands of
those ruffians."Frank had listened with eager interest to this explanation, and it made
everything clear."It was ordained by fate that we should find you there," he declared."It was known the Queen of Flowers had disappeared, and we were
searching for you.Rolf Raymond
came there, also, and he came to his death.But, Inza, explain one
thing--why didn't you answer my letters?""I did not; but I received no answers.""Then," cried the girl, "your letters must have been intercepted.I did not know your address, so I could
not ask for an explanation.""Well, it has come out right at last.We'll find a carriage and take you
home.They reached Canal Street, and found a carriage.Inza's invalid father was astounded when he saw Frank and Barney Mulloy
appear with his daughter, and he was more than ever astounded and
agitated when he knew what had happened.But Inza was safe, and Rolf Raymond was dead.It was a lively tale the boys related to Professor Scotch that night.The little man fairly gasped for breath as he listened.In the morning the police had taken hold of the affair, and they were
hot after the fellows who had killed Rolf Raymond.Frank and Barney were
called on to tell their story, and were placed under surveillance.But the cottage cafe was deserted, and the Spanish rascals were not
captured.They disappeared from New Orleans, and, to this day, the law
has never avenged the death of Roderick Raymond's only son.The murder of his boy was too much for Raymond to endure, and he died of
a broken heart on the day of the son's funeral.Knowing he was dying, he
had a new will swiftly made, and all his wealth was left to his old
friend Burrage.Frank and Barney thoroughly enjoyed the rest of their stay in New
Orleans.In the open carriage with them, at Frank's side, rode the
"Queen of Flowers" as they went sight-seeing.In the throng of spectators, with two detectives near at hand, they saw
Colonel La Salle Vallier.He lifted his hat and bowed with the utmost
courtesy."The auld chap is something of a daisy, after all, Frankie," laughed
Barney."Oi kinder admire th' spalpane."coughed Professor Scotch, at Barney's side."He is a great
duelist--a great duelist, but he quailed before my terrible eye--he was
forced to apologize."If anything happens when we are again separated that you should fail to
receive my letters, you will not doubt me, will you?"he asked, in a
whisper.And she softly replied:

"No, Frank, but----"

"But what?""You--you must not forget Elsie Bellwood.""I haven't heard from her in a long time," said Frank.But Frank was to hear from his other girl friend soon and in a most
unexpected manner.From New Orleans Frank, Barney and the professor journeyed to Florida.Frank was anxious to see the Everglades and do some hunting.Our hero was particularly anxious to shoot a golden heron, of which he
had heard not a little.One day a start was made in a canoe from a small settlement on the edge
of the great Dismal Swamp, and on went our three friends deeper and
deeper into the wilds.At last the professor grew tired of the sameness of the journey."How much further into this wild swamp do you intend to go, Frank?""I am going till I get a shot at a golden heron."White hunters have searched the
remote fastnesses of the Florida swamps for a golden heron, but no such
bird have they ever found.The Indians are the only ones to see golden
herons.""If the Indians can see them, white men may find them.I shall not be
satisfied till I have shot one.""Oh, I don't know about that, professor.I am something of an Indian
myself.You know the Seminoles are honest and peaceable, and----"

"All Indians are liars.I would not take the word of a Seminole under
any condition.Come, Frank, don't be foolish; let's turn round and go
back.We may get bewildered on these winding waterways which twist here
and there through swamps of cypress and rushes.We were foolish to come
without a guide, but----"

"We could not obtain one until to-morrow, and I wished to come to-day.""You may be sorry you did not wait.""Now, you are getting scared, professor," laughed Frank, lifting his
paddle from the water and laying it across the bow of the canoe."I'll
tell you what we'll do.""We'll leave it to Barney, who has not had a word to say on the matter.If he says go back, we'll go back."Professor Scotch hesitated, scratched his fingers into his fiery beard,
and then said:

"Well, I'll have to do as you boys say, anyway, so we'll leave it to
Barney.""All right," laughed Frank, once more."What do you say, Barney, my
boy?"Barney Mulloy was in the stern of the canoe that had been creeping along
one of the sluggish water courses that led through the cypress swamp and
into the heart of the Everglades."Well, gintlemin," he said, "Oi've been so busy thrying to kape thrack
av th' twists an' turruns we have been makin' thot Oi didn't moind mutch
pwhat ye wur soaying.So the matter was laid before him, and, when he had heard what Frank and
the professor had to say, he declared:

"Fer mesilf it's nivver a bit do Oi care where we go ur pwhat we do,
but, as long as we hiv come so fur, an' Frankie wants to go furder, Oi'd
soay go on till he is sick av it an' reddy to turn back.""As I knew it would be settled," growled Professor Scotch, sulkily."You
boys combine against me every time.Well, I suppose I'll have to
submit."So the trio pushed on still farther into the great Dismal Swamp, a weird
section of strange vegetable and animal life, where great black trees
stood silent and grim, with Spanish moss dangling from their branches,
bright-plumaged birds flashed across the opens, ugly snakes glided
sinuously over the boggy land, and sleepy alligators slid from muddy
banks and disappeared beneath the surface of the dead water."If we should come upon one of these wonderful golden herons, Frank
could not come within a hundred yards of it with that old bow and
arrow," he said."Perhaps not, but I could make a bluff at
it.""I don't see why you won't use a gun."In the first place, in order to be sure of
killing a heron with a shotgun I'd have to use fairly large shot, and
that might injure the bird badly; in the second place, there might be
two, and I'd not be able to bag more than one of them with a gun, as the
report would scare the other.Then there is the possibility that I would
miss with the first shot, and the heron would escape entirely.If I miss
with an arrow, it is not likely the bird will be alarmed and take to
flight, so I'll have another chance at it.Oh, there are some advantages
in using the primitive bow and arrow.""You have a way of always making out a good
case for yourself.he is a hard b'y to bate, profissor," grinned Barney."Av he
wurn't, it's dead he'd been long ago.""That's right, that's right," agreed Scotch, who admired Frank more than
he wished to acknowledge."It's not all luck, profissor," assured the Irish boy."In minny cases
it's pure nerve thot pulls him through.""Well, there's a great deal of luck in it--of course there is.""Oh, humor the professor, Barney," laughed Frank."Perhaps he'll become
better natured if you do."They now came to a region of wild cypress woods, where the treetops were
literally packed with old nests, made in the peculiar heron style.They
were constructed of huge bristling piles of cross-laid sticks, not
unlike brush heaps of a Western clearing.Here for years, almost ages, different species of herons had built their
nests in perfect safety.As the canoe slowly and silently glided toward the "rookeries," white
and blue herons were seen to rise from the reed-grass and fly across the
opens in a stately manner, with their long necks folded against their
breasts, and their legs projecting stiffly behind them."Pwoy don't yez be satisfoied wid a few av th' whoite wans, Frankie?""They're handsome," admitted Frank; "but a golden heron is worth a large
sum as a curiosity, and I mean to have one.""All roight, me b'y; have yer own way, lad.""He'll do that, anyhow," mumbled Professor Scotch, gruffly.They could now see long, soldier-like lines of herons stretched out
along the reedy swales, standing still and solemn, like pickets on duty.They were not particularly wary or wild, for they had not been hunted
very much in the wild region which they inhabited.Little green herons were plentiful, and they kept flying up before the
canoe constantly, scaring the others, till Frank grew very impatient,
declaring:

"Those little rascals will scare away a golden heron, if we are
fortunate enough to come upon one."Let me shoot a few of th' varmints," urged Barney, reaching for one of
the guns in the bottom of the canoe."Think what the report of a gun
would do here.muttered the Irish lad, reluctantly relinquishing his hold
on the gun."Av ye soay kape still, kape still it is."Frank instructed the professor to take in his paddle, and Barney was
directed to hold the canoe close to the edge of the rushes.In this
manner, with Frank kneeling in the prow, an arrow ready notched on the
string, he could shoot with very little delay.Beyond the heron rookery the waterway wound into the depths of a dark,
forbidding region, where the Spanish moss hung thick, and the great
trees leaned over the water.They had glided past one side of the rookery and were near this dark
opening when an exclamation of surprise came from Frank Merriwell's
lips."Phat is it, me b'y?""There must be other hunters near at hand," said the professor."The canoe is not drawn up to the bank," said Frank, in a puzzled way."It seems to be floating at some distance from the shore.""Why should it be moored in such a place?There are no tides here, and
alligators are not liable to steal canoes.""Do ye see inny soign av a camp, Frankie?""Not a sign of a camp or a human being.A strange feeling of wonder that swiftly changed to awe was creeping
over them.The canoe was snowy white, and lay perfectly motionless on
the still surface of the water.It was in the dark shadow beneath the
trees."Perhaps the owner of the canoe is lying in the bottom," suggested the
professor."We'll see about that," said Frank, putting down the bow and arrow and
taking up a paddle.With the very first stroke in that direction a most astonishing thing
happened.The white canoe seemed to swing slightly about, and then, with no
visible occupant and no apparent motive power, it glided smoothly and
gently toward the dark depths of the black forest!"There must be a
strong current there!""Nivver a bit is she floating!"Oi fale me hair shtandin' on me head!"Look at the
ripple that spreads from her prow!""But--but," spluttered Professor Scotch, "what is making her move--what
is propelling her?"came from Frank, "but it's a mystery I mean to
solve!Keep straight after that canoe,
Barney.We'll run her down and look her over."Then a strange race began, canoe against canoe, the one in the lead
apparently empty, the one pursuing containing three persons who were
using all their strength and skill to overtake the empty craft.[Illustration: "The white canoe had stopped, and was lying calmly on the
inky surface of the shadowed water."(See page 147)]




CHAPTER XXVI.snorted Barney, in disgust, great drops of perspiration rolling
down his face."As if we wurn't pullin'!""The white canoe keeps just so far ahead."it's not our fault at all, at all."Indeed, no matter how hard they worked, no matter how fast they made the
canoe fly through the water, they could not gain on the mysterious white
canoe.The distance between the two canoes seemed to remain just the
same, and the one in advance slipped through the water without a sound,
following the winding water course beneath the dark trees and going
deeper and deeper into the heart of the swamp.Other water courses were passed, running away into unknown and
unexplorable wilds.It grew darker and darker, and the feeling of awe
and fear fell more heavily upon them.At last, exhausted and discouraged, the professor stopped paddling,
crying to his companions, in a husky voice:

"Stop, boys, stop!There is something supernatural about that fiendish
boat!It is luring us to some frightful fate!""You are not superstitious--you
have said so at least a score of times.""That's all right," returned Scotch, shaking his head."I do not take
any stock in rappings, table tippings, and that kind of stuff, but I
will confess this is too much for me."Oi don't wonder at thot," gurgled Barney Mulloy, wiping the
great drops of perspiration from his forehead."It's the divvil's own
canoe, thot is sure!""Thin ixplain it fer me, me b'y--ixplain it.""Oh, I won't say that I can explain it, for I do not pretend to
understand it; but I'll wager that the mystery would be readily solved
if we could overtake and examine that canoe.""Mebbe so; but I think it nades a stameboat to overtake it."Professor Scotch shook his head in a most solemn manner."Boys," he said, "in all my career I have never seen anything like this,
and I shall never dare tell this adventure, for people in general would
not believe it--they'd think I was lying.""And, still I will wager that the
explanation of the whole matter would seem very simple if we could
overtake that canoe and examine it.""I am surprised at you, professor--I am more than surprised.""I can't help it if you are, my boy.""I am afraid your mind is beginning to weaken.""Soay, Frankie," broke in Barney."Oi loike fun as well as th' nixt wan,
but, be jabbers!it's nivver a bit av it can Oi see in this!"cried the professor, pointing at the mystic
craft."It has stopped out there in the shadows.""And seems to be waiting for us to pursue again.""I am not," decisively declared Professor Scotch."It's enough av this
koind av business Oi've been in!""We'll turn about," said Scotch, grimly."That canoe will lure us into
this dismal swamp so far that we'll never find our way out."I suppose I'll have to give up, but I do dislike
to leave without solving the mystery of that canoe.""It may be thot we're so far in thot we can't foind our way out at all,
at all," said the Irish lad."I'm afraid we'll not be able to get out before nightfall," confessed
the professor."I have no fancy for spending a night in this swamp."Barney promptly expressed his dislike for such an adventure, but Frank
was silent.The canoe turned about, and they set about the task of retracing the
water courses by which they had come far into the swamp.It was not long before they came to a place where the courses divided.Frank was for following one, while both Barney and the professor
insisted that the other was the right way.Finally, Frank gave in to them, although it was against his better
judgment, and he felt that he should not submit.They had not proceeded far before, as they were passing round a bend, a
cry of astonishment fell from Barney's lips.Th' thing is afther follying av us!"They looked back, and, sure enough, there was the mysterious canoe,
gliding after them, like a most uncanny thing!said Frank, in a tone that plainly indicated he did
not like it.throbbed the professor, splashing his paddle into the
water and very nearly upsetting them all."Don't let the thing overtake
us!"Oi think it's a foine plan to be gettin' out av this," muttered Barney,
in an agitated tone of voice."Steady, there, professor," called Frank, sharply."What do you want to
do--drown us all?As long as we could not overtake it, let it overtake us."Th' skame won't worruck, me b'y.Th' ould thing's shtopped."It was true; the white canoe had stopped, and was lying calmly on the
inky surface of the shadowed water."Well, I can't say that I like this," said Frank."And I scarcely think I like it more than you do," came from the
professor."An' th' both av yez loike it as well as mesilf," put in the Irish
youth.Go on they did, but the white canoe still followed, keeping at a
distance."I can't stand this," declared Frank, as he picked up a rifle from the
bottom of the canoe."I wonder how lead will work on her?""Pwhat are yez goin' to do, me b'y?""Shoot a few holes in that craft," was the deliberate answer."Swing to
the left, so that I may have a good chance.""No telling what'll come of it if you shoot.""I'll simply put a few holes through that canoe.""It may sind us all to glory by th' farrust express."Swing her to the left, I say.I am going to
shoot, and that settles it."It was useless for them to urge him not to fire; he was determined, and
nothing they could say would change his mind.The canoe drifted round to
the left, and the rifle rose to Frank's shoulder.The clear report rang out and echoed through the cypress forest.The bullet tore through the white canoe, and the weird craft seemed to
give a leap, like a wounded creature.echoed the professor, quivering with terror.groaned Barney Mulloy, his face white and his eyes staring."She is turning about--she is going to leave us!Up the rifle came, but, just as he pressed the trigger, Professor Scotch
pushed the weapon to one side, so the bullet did not pass within twenty
feet of the white canoe."I couldn't see you shoot into that canoe again," faltered the agitated
professor.He could not explain, and he was
ashamed of his agitation and fears."Well, you fellows lay over anything I ever went up against!""I didn't suppose you could be so thoroughly
childish.""All right, Frank," came humbly from the professor's lips."I can't help
it, and I haven't a word to say.""But I will take one more shot at that canoe!""Not this day," chuckled Barney Mulloy.The mysterious canoe had vanished from view while they were
speaking.The exclamations came from Frank and Professor Scotch.Barney's chuckle changed to a shiver, and his teeth chattered."Th' Ould B'y's in it!""The Old Boy must have been in that canoe," agreed the professor.He still refused to believe there
was anything supernatural about the mysterious, white canoe, but he was
forced to acknowledge to himself that the craft had done most amazing
things."It simply slipped into some branch waterway while we were not looking,"
he said, speaking calmly, as if it were the most commonplace thing
imaginable."Well, it's gone," said Scotch, as if greatly relieved."Now, let's get
out of this in a great hurry.""I am for going back to see what has become of the white canoe," said
Frank, with deliberate intent to make his companions squirm.Barney and the professor raised a perfect howl of protest.shouted Scotch, nearly upsetting the boat in his excitement,
and wildly flourishing his arms in the air."Oi'll joomp overboard an' swim out av
this before Oi'll go back!""I suppose I'll have to give in to
you, as you are two to one.""Come on," fluttered the professor; "let's be moving."So Frank put down the rifle, and picked up his paddle, and they resumed
their effort to get out of the swamp before nightfall.But the afternoon was well advanced, and night was much nearer than they
had thought, as they were soon to discover.At last, Barney cried:

"Oi see loight enough ahead!We must be near out av th' woods."For a long time he had been certain they were on the
wrong course, but he hoped it would bring them out somewhere.He had
noted the light that indicated they were soon to reach the termination
of the cypress swamp, but he held his enthusiasm in check till he could
be sure they had come out somewhere near where they had entered the
dismal region."What do you think now,
young man?Do you mean to say that we don't know our business?What if
we had accepted your way of getting out of the swamp!We'd been in there
now, sir.""Don't crow till you're out of the woods," advised Frank.Oi belave he'd be plazed av we didn't get out at all, at all!"In a short time they came to the termination of the cypress woods, but,
to the surprise of Barney and the professor, the swamp, overgrown with
tall rushes and reed-grass, continued, with the water course winding
away through it."Pwhat th' ould boy does this mane?""It means," said Frank, coolly, "that we have reached the Everglades."Well, pwhat do we want iv thim, Oi dunno?""They are one of the sights of Florida, Barney.""It's soights enough I've seen alreddy.Oi'd loike ter git out av this.""I knew you wouldn't get out this way, for we have not passed the
rookeries of the herons, as you must remember.""That's true," sighed the professor, dejectedly."Turn about, and retrace our steps," said Frank.But Barney and the professor raised a vigorous protest."Nivver a bit will yez get me inther thot swamp again th' doay!"shouted
the Irish lad, in a most decisive manner."If we go back, we'll not be able to get out before darkness comes on,
and we'll have to spend the night in the swamp," said Scotch, excitedly."Well, what do you propose to do?""I don't seem
to have anything to say in this matter.You are running it to suit
yourselves."They were undecided, but one thing was certain; they would not go back
into the swamp.The white canoe was there, and the professor and the
Irish lad did not care to see that again."We're out av th' woods, an',
by follyin' this strame, we ought to get out av th' Iverglades."asked Frank, who was rather enjoying the
adventure, although he did not fancy the idea of spending a night on the
marsh."Go on--by all means, go on!"We'll proceed to explore the Everglades in company
with Professor Scotch, the noted scientist and daring adventurer.So they pushed onward into the Everglades, while the sun sank lower and
lower, finally dropping beneath the horizon.Night was coming on, and they were in the heart of the Florida
Everglades!Barney and the professor fell to growling at each other, and they kept
it up while Frank smiled and remained silent.At length, Scotch took in his paddle in disgust, groaning:

"We're lost!""I am inclined to think so myself," admitted Frank, cheerfully."Well, who's to blame, Oi'd loike to know?"roared the professor, like a wounded lion."It's yersilf thot is to blame!Frankie wanted to go the other woay, but ye said no."You
insisted that this was the proper course to pursue!"Profissor, ye're a little oulder thin Oi be, but av ye wur nigh me age,
Oi'd inform ye thot ye didn't know how to spake th' truth.""Do you mean to call me a liar, you impudent young rascal?""Not now, profissor; but I would av ye wur younger.""Well, pwhat are yez goin' to do about it?""I'll make you swallow the words, you scoundrel!""Well, thot would be more av a male thin the rist av ye are loikely to
get th' noight, so it is!""Come, come," laughed Frank; "this is no time nor place to quarrel.""You're right, Frank; but this ungrateful young villain makes me very
tired!""Excuse me, but you know human beings are influenced by their
surroundings and associates.If I have----"

"Professor!""You would not accuse me of
having taught you to use slang?"No, no--that is, you see--er--well, er, that Dutch boy
was always saying something slangy."Quite a joke--quite a little joke, you
know!As under the circumstances there was nothing else to do, they finally
paddled slowly forward, looking for a piece of dry land, where they
could stop and camp for the night.They approached a small cluster of trees, which rose above the rushes,
and it was seen that they seemed to be growing on land that was fairly
high and dry."It's not likely we'll find another
place like that anywhere in the Everglades."As they came nearer, they saw the trees seemed to be growing on an
island, for the water course divided and ran on either side of them."This is really a
very interesting and amusing adventure.""It may be for you," groaned the professor; "but you forget that it is
said to be possible for persons to lose themselves in the Everglades and
never find their way out.""On the contrary, I remember it quite well.In fact, it is said that,
without a guide, the chances of finding a way out of the Everglades is
small, indeed.""Well, what do you feel so exuberant about?""Why, the possibility that we'll all perish in the Everglades adds zest
to this adventure--makes it really interesting.""Frank, you're a puzzle to me.You are cautious about running into
danger of any sort, but, once in it, you seem to take a strange and
unaccountable delight in the peril.The greater the danger, the happier
you seem to feel.""Thot's roight," nodded Barney."When I am not in danger, my good judgment tells me to take no chances;
but when I get into it fairly, I know the only thing to be done is to
make the best of it.I delight in adventure--I was born for it!"A dismal sound came from the professor's throat."When your uncle died," said Scotch, "I thought him my friend.Although
we had quarreled, I fancied the hatchet was buried.He made me your
guardian, and I still believed he had died with nothing but friendly
feelings toward me.But he knew you, and now I believe it was an act of
malice toward me when he made me your guardian.And, to add to my
sufferings, he decreed that I should travel with you.Asher Dow
Merriwell deliberately plotted against my life!He knew the sort of a
career you would lead me, and he died chuckling in contemplation of the
misery and suffering you would inflict upon me!That man was a
monster--an inhuman wretch!"cried Barney, pointing toward the small, timbered island."May Ould Nick floy away wid me av it ain't a house!"In a little clearing on some rising ground amid the trees they could see
the hut."It looks as if some one stops here at times, at least," said Frank."Av this ain't a clear case av luck, Oi dunno mesilf!""We'll get the man who lives there to guide us out of the Everglades!"shouted the professor, in a relieved tone.Then Frank cast a gloom over their spirits by saying:

"This may be a hunter's cabin, inhabited only at certain seasons of the
year.Ten to one, there's no one living in it now.""You'd be pleased if there wasn't!""We'll soon find out if there's any one at home," he said, as the canoe
ran up to the bank, and he took care to get out first.As soon as Frank was out, the professor made a scramble to follow him.He rose to his feet, despite Barney's warning cry, and, a moment later,
the cranky craft flipped bottom upward, with the swiftness of a flash of
lightning.The professor and the Irish lad disappeared beneath the surface of the
water.Barney's head popped up in a moment, and he stood upon his feet, with
the water to his waist, uttering some very vigorous words.Up came the professor, open flew his mouth, out spurted a stream of
water, and then he wildly roared:

"Help!Before either of the boys could say a word, he went under again."This is th' firrust toime Oi iver saw a man thot wanted to drown in
thray fate av wather," said Barney.Frank sat down on the dry ground, and shouted with laughter.he bellowed, after he had spurted another big stream of water
from his mouth."Will you see me perish before your very eyes?But Frank was laughing so heartily that he could not say a word, and the
little man went down once more.For the third time the professor's head appeared above the surface, and
the professor's voice weakly called:

"Will no one save me?This is a plot to get me out of the way!May you be happy
when I am gone!"shouted Frank, seeing that the little man had actually
resigned himself to drown.The professor stood up, and an expression of pain, surprise, and disgust
settled on his face, as he thickly muttered:

"May I be kicked!And I've been under the water two-thirds of the time
for the last hour!I've swallowed more than two barrels of this
swamp-water, including, in all probability, a few dozen pollywogs,
lizards, young alligators, and other delightful things!If the water
wasn't so blamed dirty here, and I wasn't afraid of swallowing enough
creatures to start an aquarium, I'd just lie down and refuse to make
another effort to get up."Then he waded out, the look on his face causing Frank to double up with
merriment, while even the wretched Barney smiled.Barney would have waded out, but Frank said:

"Don't attempt to land without those guns, old man.They're somewhere on
the bottom, and we want them."So Barney was forced to plunge under the surface and feel around till he
had fished up the rifles and the shotgun.Frank had taken care of his bow and arrows, the latter being in a quiver
at his back, and the paddles had not floated away.After a time, everything was recovered, the canoe was drawn out and
tipped bottom upward, and the trio moved toward the cabin, Frank
leading, and the professor staggering along behind.Reaching the cabin, Frank rapped loudly on the door.Once more he knocked, and then, as there was no reply, he pushed the
door open, and entered.The cabin was not occupied by any living being, but a glance showed the
trio that some one had been there not many hours before, for the embers
of a fire still glowed dimly on the open hearth of flat stones.There were two rooms, the door between them being open, so the little
party could look into the second.The first room seemed to be the principal room of the hut, while the
other was a bedroom.They could see the bed through the open doorway.There were chairs, a table, a couch, and other things, for the most part
rude, home-made stuff, and still every piece showed that the person who
constructed it had skill and taste.Around the walls were hung various tin pans and dishes, all polished
bright and clean.What surprised them the most was the wire screens in the windows, a
screen door that swung inward, and a mosquito-bar canopy over the bed
and the couch.cried Frank; "the person who lives here is prepared to
protect himself against mosquitoes and black flies.""It would be impossible to live here in the summer," gravely declared
Professor Scotch, forgetting his own misery for the moment."The pests
would drive a man crazy.""Oh, I don't know about that," returned Frank."If a man knew how to
defend himself against them he might get along all right.They can't be
worse than the mosquitoes of Alaska in the warm months.Up there the
Indians get along all right, even though mosquitoes have been known to
kill a bear."Oh, Frankie, me b'y, Oi
nivver thought that av you!""Sometimes bears, lured by
hunger, will come down into the lowlands, where mosquitoes will attack
them.They will stand up on their hind legs and strike at the little
pests with their forward paws.Sometimes a bear will do this till he is
exhausted and falls."Thot's a harrud yarn to belave, profissor; but it goes av you soay so,"
said Barney, thinking it best to smooth over the late unpleasantness."Up there," said Frank, "the Indians smear their faces and hands with
some kind of sticky stuff that keeps the mosquitoes from reaching their
flesh.But they had something to talk about besides the Indians of Alaska, for
the surprises around them furnished topics for conversation.Exploring the place, they found it well stocked with provisions, which
caused them all to feel delighted."It will be all right if we are able to get out of the scrape," said
Scotch.Barney built a fire, while Frank prepared to make bread and cook supper,
having found everything necessary for the accomplishment of the task.The professor stripped off his outer garments, wrung the water out of
them, and hung them up before the fire to dry.They made themselves as comfortable as possible, and night came on,
finding them in a much better frame of mind than they had expected to
be.Frank succeeded in baking some bread in the stone oven.He found
coffee, and a pot bubbled on the coals, sending out an odor that made
the trio feel ravenous.There were candles in abundance, and two of them were lighted.Then,
when everything was ready, they sat down to the table and enjoyed a
supper that put them in the best of moods.The door of the hut was left open, and the light shone out upon the
overturned canoe and the dark water beyond.After supper they cleaned and dried the rifles and shotgun.laughed Frank; "this is a regular picnic!I'm glad we took
the wrong course, and came here!""You may change your tune before we get out," said the professor, whose
trousers were dry, and who was now feeling of his coat to see how that
was coming on."Don't croak, profissor," advised Barney."You're th' firrust mon Oi
iver saw thot wuz bound ter drown himsilf in thray fate av wather."Oh, laugh, laugh," snapped the little man, fiercely."I'll get even
with you for that some time!After supper they lay around and took things easy.Barney and Frank told
stories till it was time to go to bed, and they finally turned in, first
having barred the door and made sure the windows were securely fastened.They soon slept, but they were not to rest quietly through the night.Other mysterious things were soon to follow those of the day.The boys leaped to their feet, and the professor came tearing out of the
bedroom, ran into the table, which he overturned with a great clatter of
dishes, reeled backward, and sat down heavily on the floor, where he
rubbed his eyes, and muttered:

"I thought that fire engine was going to run me down before I could get
out of the way.""Who ever heard of a fire engine
in the heart of the Florida Everglades?""Oi herrud th' gong," declared Barney."I heard something that sounded like a fire gong," admitted Frank."Pwhat was it, Oi dunno?""It seemed to come from beneath the head of the bed in there," said
Scotch."An' Oi thought I herrud it under me couch out here," gurgled Barney."We will light a candle, and look around," said Frank.A candle was lighted, and they looked for the cause of the midnight
alarm, but they found nothing that explained the mystery."It's afther gettin' away from here we'd
better be, mark me worrud.""It's spooks there be around this place, ur Oi'm mistaken!""Oh, I've heard enough about spooks!The professor was silent, but he shook his head in a very mysterious
manner, as if he thought a great many things he did not care to speak
about.They had been thoroughly awakened, but, after a time, failing to
discover what had aroused them, they decided to return to bed.Five minutes after they lay down, Frank and the professor were brought
to their feet by a wild howl and a thud.They rushed out of the bedroom,
and nearly fell over Barney, who was lying in the middle of the floor,
at least eight feet from the couch.palpitated the Irish lad, thickly."Oi wur jist beginning to get slapy whin something grabbed me an' threw
me clan out here in th' middle av th' room.""Oi'll swear to it, Frankie--Oi'll swear on a stack av Boibles.""You dreamed it, Barney; that's what's the matter.""Nivver a drame, me b'y, fer Oi wasn't aslape at all, at all.""But you may have been asleep, for you say you were beginning to get
sleepy."Oi dunno about thot, Frankie.Oi'm incloined to belave th' Ould B'y's
around, so Oi am.""Nivver a bit will Oi troy to slape on thot couch again th' noight, me
b'y.Oi'll shtay roight here on th' flure.""Sleep where you like, but keep still.Frank was somewhat nettled by these frequent interruptions of his rest,
and he was more than tempted to give Barney cause to believe the hut was
really haunted, for he was an expert ventriloquist, and he could have
indulged in a great deal of sport with the Irish boy.But other things were soon to take up their attention.While they were
talking a strange humming arose on every side and seemed to fill the
entire hut.At first, it was like a swarm of bees, but it grew louder
and louder till it threatened to swell into a roar.Professor Scotch was nearly frightened out of his wits.he shrieked, making a wild dash for the
door, which he flung wide open.But the professor did not rush out of the cabin.Instead, he flung up
his hands, staggered backward, and nearly fell to the floor.he faintly gasped, clutching at empty air for
support.Frank sprang forward, catching and steadying the professor.Sure enough, on the dark surface of the water, directly in front of the
hut, lay the mysterious canoe.And now this singular craft was illuminated from stem to stern by a
soft, white light that showed its outlines plainly."Sint Patherick presarve us!""I am getting tired of being chased around by a canoe!"said Frank, in
disgust, as he hastily sought one of the rifles."Av yer do, our goose is cooked!"Frank threw a fresh cartridge into the rifle, and turned toward the open
door, his mind fully made up.And then, to the profound amazement of all three, seated in the canoe
there seemed to be an old man, with white hair and long, white beard.The soft, white light seemed to come from every part of his person, as
it came from the canoe.Frank Merriwell paused, with the rifle partly lifted."It's th' spook himsilf!"gasped Barney, covering his face with his
hands, and clinging to the professor."For mercy's sake, don't shoot,
Frank!Frank was startled and astonished, but he was determined not to lose his
nerve, no matter what happened.The man in the canoe seemed to be looking directly toward the cabin.He
slowly lifted one hand, and pointed away across the Everglades, at the
same time motioning with the other hand, as if for them to go in that
direction."I'll just send a bullet over his head, to see what he thinks of it,"
said Frank, softly, lifting the rifle.Canoe and man disappeared in the twinkling of an eye!The trio in the hut gasped and rubbed their eyes."An' now Oi suppose ye'll say it wur no ghost?"It was extremely dark beneath the shadow of the cypress trees, and not a
sign of the mysterious canoe could they see."It is evident he did not care to have me send a bullet whizzing past
his ears," laughed Frank, who did not seem in the least disturbed.demanded Professor Scotch, in a shaking
tone of voice.Frank's hand fell on the professor's arm, and the three listened
intently, hearing something that gave them no little surprise.From far away through the night came the sound of hoarse voices singing
a wild, doleful song."Pwhat the Ould Nick does thot mane?""Let's see if we can understand the words
they are singing."We sailed away from Gloucester Bay,
      And the wind was in the west, yo ho!And her cargo was some New England rum;
      Our grog it was made of the best, yo ho!""A sailor's song," decided Frank, "and those are sailors who are
singing.We are not alone in the Everglades.""They're all drunk," declared the professor."You can tell that by the
sound of their voices."They're a blamed soight betther than none, fer it's loikely they know
th' way out av this blissed swamp," said Barney."They may bub-bub-be pup-pup-pup-pirates!""What sticks me," said Frank, "is how a party of sailors ever made their
way in here, for we are miles upon miles from the coast."Are ye fer takin' a look at th' loikes av thim, Frankie?""I am not going near those ruffianly and bloodthirsty pirates.""Then you may stay here with the spooks, while Barney and I go."This was altogether too much for the professor, and, when he found they
really intended to go, he gave in.Frank loaded the rifles and the shotgun, and took along his bow and
arrows, even though Barney made sport of him for bothering with the
last.They slipped the canoe into the water, and, directed by Frank, the
professor succeeded in getting in without upsetting the frail affair."Oi hope we won't run inther the ghost," uttered the Irish boy."The sound of that singing comes from the direction in which the old man
seemed to point," said Frank.The singing continued, sometimes sinking to a low, droning sound,
sometimes rising to a wild wail that sounded weirdly over the marshland."Ready," said Frank, and the canoe slipped silently over the dark
surface of the water course.The singing ceased after a time, but they were still guided by the sound
of wrangling voices."This is tut-tut-terrible!"Suddenly the sound of a pistol shot came over the rushes, followed by a
feminine shriek of pain or terror!As soon as he
could recover, Frank asked:

"Did you hear that?""It sounded very much like the voice of a woman or girl," said Professor
Scotch, who was so amazed that he forgot for the moment that he was
scared."That's what it was," declared Frank; "and it means that our aid is
needed in that quarter at once.""There's no telling
what kind of a gang we may run into."grated Barney Mulloy, quivering with eagerness."There's a female in nade av hilp."directed Frank, giving utterance to his old maxim.The professor was too agitated to handle a paddle, so the task of
propelling the canoe fell to the boys, who sent it skimming over the
water, Frank watching out for snags.In a moment the water course swept round to the left, and they soon saw
the light of a fire gleaming through the rushes.The sounds of a conflict continued, telling them that the quarrel was
still on, and aiding them in forming their course.In a moment they came in full view of the camp-fire, by the light of
which they saw several struggling, swaying figures.Frank's keen eyes seemed to take in everything at one sweeping glance.Six men and a girl were revealed by the light of the fire.Five of the
men were engaged in a fierce battle, while the sixth was bound, in a
standing position, to the trunk of a tree.The girl, with her hands bound behind her back, was standing near the
man who was tied to the tree, and the firelight fell fairly on the faces
of man and girl.A low exclamation of the utmost astonishment broke from Frank's lips."It can't be--it is an impossibility!""Pwhat is it, me b'y?"That is Captain Justin Bellwood,
whose vessel was lost in the storm off Fardale coast!"An' th' girrul is----"

"Elsie Bellwood, his daughter!""Th' wan you saved from th' foire, Frankie?""Captain Bellwood
has a new vessel, and he would not be here."But how----"

"There has been some kind of trouble, and they are captives--that is
plain enough.Those men are sailors--Captain Bellwood's sailors!It's
likely there has been a mutiny."We must land while those ruffians are fighting.If
we can get ashore, we'll set the captain free, and I fancy we'll be able
to hold our own with those ruffians, desperate wretches though they
are.""Perhaps they will kill each other,
and then our part will be easy."Frank was not for waiting, but, at that moment, something happened that
caused him to change his plan immediately.The fighting ruffians were using knives in a deadly way, and one man,
bleeding from many wounds, fell exhausted to the ground.Another, who
seemed to be this one's comrade, tore himself from the other three,
leaped to the girl, caught her in his arms, and held her in front of
him, so that her body shielded his.Then, pointing a revolver over her
shoulder, he snarled:

"Come on, and I'll bore the three of ye!You can't shoot me, Gage,
unless you kill ther gal!"The youngest one of the party, a mere boy, but a fellow with the air of
a desperado, stepped to the front, saying swiftly:

"If you don't drop that girl, Jaggers, you'll leave your carcass in this
swamp!Frank clapped a hand over his mouth to keep from uttering a great shout
of amazement.The next moment he panted:

"This is fate!by the eternal skies, that is Leslie Gage,
my worst enemy at Fardale Academy, and the fellow who ran away to keep
from being expelled.It was reported that he had gone to sea.""Ye're roight, Frankie," agreed the no less excited Irish lad."It's
thot skunk, an' no mistake!""It is Leslie Gage," agreed the professor."He was ever a bad boy, but I
did not think he would come to this.""An' Oi always thought he would come to some bad ind.It wur thot
spalpane thot troied to run Frank through with a sharpened foil wan
toime whin they wur fencing.He had black murder in his hearrut thin,
an' it's not loikely th' whilp has grown inny betther since."The man with the girl laughed defiantly, retorting:

"You talk big, Gage, but it won't work with me.I hold the best hand
just at present, and you'll have to come to terms."You don't dare shoot," returned the young desperado, as he took still
another step toward the sailor.In a moment the man placed the muzzle of the revolver against the temple
of the helpless girl, fiercely declaring:

"If you come another inch, I'll blow her brains out!"I will fix him, or
my name is not Merriwell!"He drew an arrow from the quiver, and fitted the notch to the
bow-string.His nerves were steady, and he was determined.He waited
till the man had removed the muzzle of the weapon from the girl's
temple, and then he lifted the bow.They longed to check
Frank, but dared not speak for fear of causing him to waver and send the
arrow at the girl.The bow was bent, the line was taut, the arrow was drawn to the head,
and then----

Twang!The arrow sped through the air, but it was too dark for them to
follow its flight with their eyes.With their hearts in their mouths,
they awaited the result.Of a sudden, the ruffian uttered a cry of pain, released his hold on the
girl, and fell heavily to the ground.The firelight showed the arrow sticking in his shoulder.grunted a voice close beside the canoe."Very good shot for a
white boy.The trio turned in amazement and alarm, and, within three feet of them,
they saw a shadowy canoe that contained a shadowy figure.There was but
one person in the strange canoe, and he immediately added:

"There is no need to fear Socato, the Seminole, for he will not harm
you.He is the friend of all good white men."It was an Indian, a Seminole, belonging to the remnant of the once great
nation that peopled the Florida peninsula.Frank realized this in a
moment, and, knowing the Seminoles were harmless when well treated, felt
no further alarm.The Indian had paddled with the utmost silence to their side, while they
were watching what was taking place on shore.The arrow had produced consternation in the camp.The fellow who was
wounded tried to draw it from his shoulder, groaning:

"This is not a fair deal!Give me a fair show, and I'll fight you all!"The two canoes were beyond the circle of firelight, so they could not be
seen from the shore.Gage's two companions were overcome with terror."We've been attacked
by a band of savages!"Gage spoke a few words in a low tone, and then sprang over the prostrate
form of the man who had been stricken down by the arrow, grasped the
girl, and retreated into the darkness.His companions also scudded
swiftly beyond the firelight, leaving Captain Bellwood still bound to
the tree, while one man lay dead on the ground, and another had an arrow
in his shoulder.Close to Frank's ear the voice of Socato the Seminole sounded:

"Light bother them.They git in the dark and see us from the shore.gasped Professor Scotch, "I don't care to stay here,
and have them shoot at me!""Of course we will pay," hastily answered Frank."Can you aid us in
saving her?If you can, you shall be----"

"Socato save her.White man and two boys go back to cabin of Great White
Phantom.Stay there, and Socato come with the girl."Oi don't loike thot," declared Barney."Oi'd loike to take a
hand in th' rescue mesilf.""Socato can do better alone," asserted the Seminole.But Frank was not inclined to desert Elsie Bellwood in her hour of
trouble, and he said:

"Socato, you must take me with you.Professor, you and Barney go back to
the hut, and stay there till we come."The Indian hesitated, and then said:

"If white boy can shoot so well with the bow and arrow, he may not be in
the way.I will take him, if he can step from one canoe to the other
without upsetting either.""That's easy," said Frank, as he deliberately and safely accomplished
the feat."Well done, white boy," complimented the strange Indian."Pass me one of those rifles," requested Frank."White boy better leave rifle; take bow and arrows," advised Socato."Rifle make noise; bow and arrow make no noise."Return to the hut, Barney, and stay there
till we show up.""But th' spook----"

"Hang the spook!We'll know where to find you, if you go there.""The Great White Phantom will not harm those who offer him no harm,"
declared the Indian."I am not so afraid of spooks as I am of---- Jumping Jupiter!"There was a flash of fire from the darkness on shore, the report of a
gun, and a bullet whirred through the air, cutting the professor's
speech short, and causing him to duck down into the canoe."Those fellows have located us," said Frank, swiftly.Socato's paddle dropped without a sound into the water, and the canoe
slid away into the night.The professor and Barney lost no time in moving, and it was well they
did so, for, a few seconds later, another shot came from the shore, and
the bullet skipped along the water just where the canoes had been.Frank trusted everything to Socato, even though he had never seen or
heard of the Seminole before.Something about the voice of the Indian
convinced the boy that he was honest, for all that his darkness was such
that Frank could not see his face and did not know how he looked.The Indian sent the canoe through the water with a speed and silence
that was a revelation to Frank Merriwell.The paddle made no sound, and
it seemed that the prow of the canoe scarcely raised a ripple, for all
that they were gliding along so swiftly.whispered Frank, observing that they were leaving
the camp-fire astern."If I didn't, I shouldn't be here.Socato take him round to place where we can come up
behind bad white men.The light of the camp-fire died out, and then, a few moments later,
another camp-fire seemed to glow across a strip of low land.What party is camped there--friends of yours, Socato?"We left that fire behind us, Socato.""And we have come round by the water till it is before us again."This was true, but the darkness had been so intense that Frank did not
see how their course was changing."I see how you mean to come up behind them," said the boy."You are
going to land and cross to their camp."Soon the rushes closed in on either side, and the Indian sent the canoe
twisting in and out amid their tall stalks like a creeping panther.He
seemed to know every inch of the way, and followed it as well as if it
were broad noonday.Frank's admiration for the fellow grew with each moment, and he felt
that he could, indeed, trust Socato."If we save that girl and the old man, you shall be well paid for the
job," declared the boy, feeling that it was well to dangle a reward
before the Indian's mental vision."It is good," was the whispered retort.In a few moments they crept through the rushes till the canoe lay close
to a bank, and the Indian directed Frank to get out.The camp-fire could not be seen from that position, but the boy well
knew it was not far away.Taking his bow, with the quiver of arrows slung to his back, the lad
left the canoe, being followed immediately by the Seminole, who lifted
the prow of the frail craft out upon the bank, and then led the way.Passing round a thick mass of reeds, they soon reached a position where
they could see the camp-fire and the moving forms of the sailors.Just
as they reached this position, Leslie Gage was seen to dash up to the
fire and kick the burning brands in various directions."He has done that so that the firelight might not reveal them to us,"
thought Frank."They still believe us near, although they know not where
we are."Crouching and creeping, Socato led the way, and Frank followed closely,
wondering what scheme the Indian could have in his head, yet trusting
everything to his sagacity.In a short time they were near enough to hear the conversation of the
bewildered and alarmed sailors.The men were certain a band of savages
were close at hand, for they did not dream that the arrow which had
dropped Jaggers was fired by the hand of a white person."The sooner we get away from here, the better it will be for us,"
declared Leslie Gage."We'll have to get away in the boats," said a grizzled
villainous-looking, one-eyed old sailor, who was known as Ben Bowsprit."Fo' de Lawd's sake!"gasped the third sailor, who was a <DW64>, called
Black Tom; "how's we gwine to run right out dar whar de critter am dat
fired de arrer inter Jack Jaggers?""The 'critter' doesn't seem to be there any longer," assured Gage."Those two shots must have frightened him away.""That's right," agreed Bowsprit."This has been an unlucky stop fer us,
mates.Tomlinson is dead, an' Jaggers----"

"I ain't dead, but I'm bleedin', bleedin', bleedin'!"moaned the fellow
who had been hit by Frank's arrow."There's a big tear in my shoulder,
an' I'm afeared I've made my last cruise.""It serves you right," came harshly from the boy leader of the ruffianly
crew."Tomlinson attempted to set himself up as head of this crew--as
captain over me.All the time, you knew I was the leader
in every move we have made.""And a pretty pass you have led us to!""Where's the money you said the captain had stored away?Where's the
reward we'd receive for the captain alive and well?We turned mutineers
at your instigation, and what have we made of it?We've set the law
agin' us, an' here we are.The _Bonny Elsie_ has gone up in smoke----"

"Through the carelessness of a lot of drunken fools!"But for that, we wouldn't be here now,
hiding from officers of the law.""Well, here we are," growled Ben Bowsprit, "an' shiver my timbers if we
seem able to get out of this howlin' swamp!The more we try, the more we
seem ter git lost.""Fo' goodness, be yo' gwine to stan' roun' an' chin, an' chin, an'
chin?""The fire's out, and we can't be seen," spoke Gage, swiftly, in a low
tone.You two are to take the old man in one; I'll
take the girl in the other.""It's the gal you've cared fer all the time," cried Jaggers, madly."It
was for her you led us into this scrape."You can't make me shut up, Gage.""Well, you'll have a chance to talk to yourself and Tomlinson before
long."I saw you strike the
blow, and I'll swear to that, my hearty!""It's not likely you'll be given a chance to swear to it, Jaggers.I may
have killed him, but it was in self-defense.He was doing his best to
get his knife into me.""Yes, we was tryin' to finish you," admitted Jaggers."With you out of
the way, Tomlinson would have been cap'n, and I first mate.You've kept
your eyes on the gal all the time.I don't believe you thought the cap'n
had money at all.It was to get the gal you led us into this business.She'd snubbed you--said she despised you, and you made up your mind to
carry her off against her will.""If that was my game, you must confess I succeeded very well.But I
can't waste more time talking to you.Put Cap'n Bellwood in the larger, and look out for
him."Boy though he was, Gage had resolved
to become a leader of men, and he had succeeded.The girl, quite overcome, was prostrate at the feet of her father, who
was bound to the cypress tree.There was a look of pain and despair on the face of the old captain.His
heart bled as he looked down at his wretched daughter, and he groaned:

"Merciful Heaven!It were better that she
should die than remain in the power of that young villain!""What are you muttering about, old man?"coarsely demanded Gage, as he
bent to lift the girl."You seem to be muttering to yourself the greater
part of the time.""Do you
think you can escape the retribution that pursues all such dastardly
creatures as you?"I have found out that the goody-good people do
not always come out on top in this world.Besides that, it's too late
for me to turn back now.I started wrong at school, and I have been
going wrong ever since.It's natural for me; I can't help it.""If you harm her, may the wrath of Heaven fall on your head!"I will be very tender and considerate with her.He attempted to lift her to her feet, but she drew from him, shuddering
and screaming wildly:

"Don't touch me!""Now, don't be a little fool!""You make me sick with
your tantrums!But she screamed the louder, seeming to stand in the utmost terror of
him.With a savage exclamation, Gage tore off his coat and wrapped it about
the girl's head so that her cries were smothered."Perhaps that will keep you still a bit!"he snapped, catching her up in
his arms, and bearing her to the smaller boat, in which he carefully
placed her.As her hands were bound behind her, she could not
remove the coat from about her head, and she sat as he placed her, with
it enveloping her nearly to the waist.Somebody
take Tomlinson's weapons.He may need them when we
are gone.""Don't leave me here to die alone!"piteously pleaded the wounded
sailor."I'm pretty well gone now, but I don't want to be left here
alone!"Gage left the small boat for a moment, and approached the spot where the
pleading wretch lay."Jaggers," he said, "it's the fate you deserve.You agreed to stand by
me, but you went back on your oath, and tried to kill me.""And now you're going to leave me here to bleed to death or starve?"The tables are turned on you, my fine fellow.""Well, I'm sure you won't leave me."Jaggers flung up his hand, from which a spout of flame seemed to leap,
and the report of a pistol sounded over the marsh.Leslie Gage fell in a heap to the ground.Well, he is dead already, for I shot
him through the brain!""That's where you are mistaken, Jaggers," said the cool voice of the
boyish leader of the mutineers."I saw your move, saw the revolver, and
dropped in time to avoid the bullet."A snarl of baffled fury came from the lips of the wounded sailor."See if you can dodge this
bullet!"He would have fired again, but Gage leaped forward in the darkness,
kicked swiftly and accurately, and sent the revolver spinning from the
man's hand."I did mean to have
you taken away, and I was talking to torment you.Now you will stay
here--and die like a dog!"He turned from Jaggers, and hurried back to the boat, in which that
muffled figure silently sat.Captain Bellwood had been released from the tree, and marched to the
other boat, in which he now sat, bound and helpless.They pushed off, settled into their seats, and began rowing.Gage was not long in following, but he wondered at the silence of the
girl who sat in the stern.It could not be that she had fainted, for she
remained in an upright position."Any way to get out of this," was the answer."We will find another
place to camp, but I want to get away from this spot."Not a sound came from beneath the muffled coat."It must be close," thought Gage."I wonder if she can breathe all
right.At last, finding he could keep up with his companions without trouble,
and knowing he would have very little difficulty in overtaking them,
Gage drew in his oars and slipped back toward the muffled figure in the
stern."You must not think too hard of me, Miss Bellwood," he said, pleadingly.I love you far too much for that,
Elsie."He could have sworn that the sound which came from the muffling folds of
the coat was like a smothered laugh, but he knew she was not laughing at
him."I have been wicked and desperate," he went on; "but I was driven to the
life I have led.When I shipped on
your father's vessel it was because I had seen you and knew you were to
be along on the cruise.I loved you at first sight, and I vowed that I
would reform and do better if you loved me in return, Elsie."He was speaking swiftly in a low tone, and his voice betrayed his
earnestness.He passed an arm around the muffled figure, feeling it
quiver within his grasp, and then he continued:

"You did not take kindly to me, but I persisted.Then you repulsed
me--told me you despised me, and that made me desperate.I swore I would
have you, Elsie.Then came the mutiny and the burning of the vessel.Now
we are here, and you are with me.Elsie, you know not how I love you!I
have become an outcast, an outlaw--all for your sake!It must be that he was beginning to break down that icy barrier.She
realized her position, and she would be reasonable."Do not scream, Elsie--do not draw away, darling.Say that you will love
me a little--just a little!"He pulled the coat away, and something came out of the folds and touched
cold and chilling against his forehead.commanded a voice that was full of chuckling laughter."If
you chirp, I'll have to blow the roof of your head off, Gage!"Leslie Gage caught his breath and nearly collapsed into the bottom of
the boat.Indeed, he would have fallen had not a strong hand fastened on
his collar and held him."I don't want to shoot you, Gage," whispered the cool voice."I don't
feel like that, even though you did attempt to take my life once or
twice in the past.You have made me very good natured within the past
few moments.How gently you murmured, 'Do not draw
away, darling; say that you love me a little--just a little!'Really, Gage, you gave me such amusement that I am more than
satisfied with this little adventure.""Still, I can't
place you.""Indeed, you are forgetful, Gage.But it is rather dark, and I don't
suppose you expected to see me here."And you are--Frank Merriwell!"Gage would have shouted the name in his amazement, but Frank's fingers
suddenly closed on the fellow's throat and held back the sound in a
great measure."Now you have guessed it," chuckled Frank.I can forgive you
for the past since you have provided me with so much amusement to-night.How you urged me to learn to love you!But that's too much, Gage; I can
never learn to do that."Leslie ground his teeth, but he was still overcome with unutterable
amazement and wonder.That Frank Merriwell, whom he hated, should appear
there at night in the wilds of the Florida Everglades was like a
miracle.Had some magic of that wild and
dreary region changed her into Frank Merriwell?Little wonder that Gage was dazed and helpless."How in the name of the Evil One did you come here?"he finally asked,
recovering slightly from his stupor.It was the same old merry, boyish laugh
that Gage had heard so often at Fardale, and it filled him with intense
anger, as it had in the days of old."I know you did not expect to see me," murmured Frank, still laughing."I assure you that the Evil One had nothing to do with my appearance
here."I left her in the boat a few moments."I will let you speculate over that question for a while, my fine
fellow.In the meantime, I fancy it will be a good idea to tie you up so
you will not make any trouble.Remember I have a revolver handy, and I
promise that I'll use it if you kick up a row."At this moment, one of the sailors in the other boat called:

"Hello, there, Mr.Gage was tempted to shout for help, but the muzzle of the cold weapon
that touched his forehead froze his tongue to silence.Ben Bowsprit was growing impatient and wondering why Leslie did not
answer.It had occurred to the old tar that it was possible the boy had
deserted them.The voice of Black Tom was heard to say:

"He oughter be right near by us, Ben.'Smighty strange dat feller don'
seem to answer nohow.""We'll pull back, my hearty, and
take a look for our gay cap'n."They were coming back, and Gage was still unbound, although a captive in
Frank Merriwell's clutch.There would not be enough time to bind Gage and
get away.Something must be done to prevent the two sailors from turning
about and rowing back."Gage," whispered Frank, swiftly, "you must answer them.Say, it's all
right, boys; I'm coming right along."Gage hesitated, the longing to shout for help again grasping him.hissed Frank, and the muzzle of the revolver seemed
to bore into Gage's forehead, as if the bullet longed to seek his brain.With a mental curse on the black luck, Gage uttered the words as his
captor had ordered, although they seemed to come chokingly from his
throat."Well, what are ye doing back there so long?""Tell them you're making love," chuckled Frank, who seemed to be hugely
enjoying the affair, to the unspeakable rage of his captive."Ask them
if they don't intend to give you a show at all."Gage did as directed, causing Bowsprit to laugh hoarsely.cackled the old sailor, in the darkness."But
this is a poor time to spend in love-makin', cap'n.Wait till we git
settled down ag'in.Tom an' me'll agree not ter watch ye.""Say, all right; go on," instructed Frank, and Gage did so.In a few seconds, the sound of oars were heard, indicating that the
sailors were obeying instructions.At that moment, while Frank was listening to this sound, Gage believed
his opportunity had arrived, and, being utterly desperate, the young
rascal knocked aside Frank's hand, gave a wild shout, leaped to his
feet, and plunged headlong into the water.It was done swiftly--too swiftly for Frank to shoot, if he had intended
such a thing.But Frank Merriwell had no desire to shoot his former
schoolmate, even though Leslie Gage had become a hardened and desperate
criminal, and so, having broken away, the youthful leader of the
mutineers stood in no danger of being harmed.Frank and Socato had been close at hand when Gage placed Elsie Bellwood
in the boat, and barely was the girl left alone before she was removed
by the Seminole, in whose arms she lay limp and unconscious, having
swooned at last.Then it was that a desire to capture Gage and a wild longing to give the
fellow a paralyzing surprise seized upon Frank."Socato," he whispered, "I am going to trust you to take that girl to
the hut where my friends are to be found.Remember that you shall be
well paid; I give you my word of honor as to that."Have a little racket on my own hook," was the reply."If I lose my
bearings and can't find the hut, I will fire five shots into the air
from my revolver.Have one of my friends answer in a similar manner."Frank took the coat; stepped into the boat, watched till Gage was
approaching, and then muffled his head, sitting in the place where Elsie
had been left.In the meantime, the Seminole was bearing the girl swiftly and silently
away.Thus it came about that Gage made love to Frank Merriwell, instead of
the fair captive he believed was muffled by the coat.When Gage plunged into the water, the small boat rocked and came near
upsetting, but did not go over.But the fellow's cry and the splash had brought the sailors to a halt,
and they soon called back:

"What's the matter?"I rather fancy it will be a good plan to make myself scarce in this
particular locality," muttered Frank.Gage swam under water for some distance, and then, coming to the
surface, he shouted to the men in the leading boat:

"Bowsprit, Black Tom, help!There is an enemy here,
but he is alone!"You will have a fine time
catching me.You have given me great amusement, Gage.I assure you that
I have been highly entertained by your company, and hereafter I shall
consider you an adept in the gentle art of making love."fiercely shouted Gage from the water."You are having your turn
now, but mine will soon come!""I have heard you talk like that before, Gage.It does not seem that you
have yet learned 'the way of the transgressor is hard.'""You'll learn better than to meddle with me!I have longed to meet you
again, Frank Merriwell, and I tell you now that one of us will not leave
this swamp alive!""This is not the first time you have made a promise that you were not
able to keep.Before I leave you, I have this to say: If Captain
Bellwood is harmed in the least, if he is not set at liberty with very
little delay, I'll never rest till you have received the punishment
which your crimes merit."Frank could hear the sailors rowing back, and he felt for the oars,
having no doubt that he would be able to escape them with ease, aided by
the darkness.When Gage stopped rowing to make love to the supposed Elsie he had left
the oars in the rowlocks, drawing them in and laying them across the
boat.In the violent rocking of the boat when the fellow leaped
overboard one of the oars had been lost.Frank was left with a single oar, and his enemies were bearing down upon
him with great swiftness."I wonder if there's a chance to scull this boat?"he coolly speculated,
as he hastened to the stern and made a swift examination.To his satisfaction and relief, he found there was, and the remaining
oar was quickly put to use.Even then Frank felt confident that he would be able to avoid his
enemies in the darkness that lay deep and dense upon the great swamp.He
could hear them rowing, and he managed to skull the light boat along
without making much noise.He did not mind that Gage had escaped; in fact, he was relieved to get
rid of the fellow, although it had been his intention to hold him as
hostage for Captain Bellwood.It was the desire for adventure that had led Frank into the affair, and,
now that it was over so far as surprising Gage was concerned, he was
satisfied to get away quietly.He could hear the sailors calling Gage, who answered from the water, and
he knew they would stop to pick the fellow up, which would give our hero
a still better show of getting away.All this took place, and Frank was so well hidden by the darkness that
there was not one chance in a thousand of being troubled by the
ruffianly crew when another astonishing thing happened.From a point amid the tall rushes a powerful white light gleamed out and
fell full and fair upon the small boat and its single occupant,
revealing Frank as plainly as if by the glare of midday sunlight."What is the meaning of this,
I would like to know?"He was so astonished that he nearly dropped the oar.The sailors were astonished, but the light showed them distinctly, and
Gage snarled."Give me your pistol, Bowsprit!He snatched the weapon from the old tar's hand, took hasty aim, and
fired.Frank Merriwell was seen to fling up his arms and fall heavily into the
bottom of the boat!grated the triumphant young rascal, flourishing the revolver.The mysterious light vanished in the twinkling of an eye, but it had
shone long enough for Gage to do his dastardly work.The sailors were alarmed by the light, and wished to row away; but Gage
raved at them, ordering them to pull down toward the spot where the
other boat lay.After a time, the men recovered enough to do as directed, and the
smaller boat was soon found, rocking lightly on the surface.Running alongside, Gage reached over into the small boat, and his hand
found the boy who was stretched in the bottom.cried the young rascal, gleefully."I'll bet anything I
put the bullet straight through his heart!"And then, as if his own words had brought a sense of it all to him, he
suddenly shuddered with horror, faintly muttering:

"That was murder!"The horror grew upon him rapidly, and he began to wonder that he had
felt delight when he saw Frank Merriwell fall.The shooting had been the
impulse of the moment, and, now that it was done and he realized what it
meant, he would have given much to recall that bullet."I swore that one of us should not leave this
swamp alive, and my oath will not be broken.I hated Frank Merriwell the
first time I saw him, and I have hated him ever since.Now he is out of
my way, and he will never cross my path again."There was a slight stir in the small boat, followed by something like a
gasping moan."He don't seem to be dead yet, cap'n," said Ben Bowsprit."I guess your
aim wasn't as good as you thought.""Oh, I don't think he'll recover very fast," said the youthful rascal,
harshly.He rose and stepped over into the smaller boat."I want to take a look at the chap."You'll find I'm not dead yet!"returned a weak voice, and Frank
Merriwell sat up and grappled with Gage.A snarl of fury came from the lips of the boy desperado."You'll have to fight before you finish me!"But Merriwell seemed weak, and Gage did not find it difficult to handle
the lad at whom he had shot.He forced Frank down into the bottom of the
boat, and then called to his companions:

"Give me some of that line.A piece of rope was handed to him, and Black Tom stepped into the boat
to aid him.Between them, they succeeded in making Frank fast, for the
boy's struggles were weak, at best."At Fardale Frank
Merriwell triumphed.He disgraced me, and I was forced to fly from the
school.""You disgraced yourself," declared the defiant captive."You cheated at
cards--you fleeced your schoolmates."Oh, yes, I was rather flip with the papers,
and I should not have been detected but for you, Merriwell.When I was
exposed, I knew I would be shunned by all the fellows in school, and so
I ran away.But I did not forget who brought the disgrace about, and I
knew we should meet some time, Merriwell.How you came here
I do not know, and why my bullet did not kill you is more than I can
understand.""It would have killed me but for a locket and picture in my pocket,"
returned Frank."It struck the locket, and that saved me; but the shock
robbed me of strength--it must have robbed me of consciousness for a
moment.""It would have been just as well for you if the locket had not stopped
the bullet," declared Gage, fiercely."By that I presume you mean that you intend to murder me anyway?""I have sworn that one of us shall never leave this swamp alive.""Go ahead, Gage," came coolly from the lips of the captive."Luck seems
to have turned your way.Make the most of it while you have an
opportunity.""We can't spend time in gabbing here," came nervously from Bowsprit."Yes," put in Black Tom; "fo' de Lawd's sake, le's get away before dat
light shine some mo'!""That's right," said the old tar."Some things happen in this swamp that
no human being can account for."Gage was ready enough to get away, and they were soon pulling onward
again, with Frank Merriwell, bound and helpless, in the bottom of the
smaller boat.For nearly an hour they rowed, and then they succeeded in finding some
dry, solid land where they could camp beneath the tall, black trees.They were so overcome with alarm that they did not venture to build a
fire, for all that Gage was shivering in his wet clothes.Leslie was still puzzling over Frank Merriwell's astonishing appearance,
and he tried to question Frank concerning it, but he could obtain but
little satisfaction from the boy he hated.Away to the west stretched the Everglades, while to the north and the
east lay the dismal cypress swamps.The party seemed quite alone in the heart of the desolate region.Leslie started out to explore the strip of elevated land upon which they
had passed the night, and he found it stretched back into the woods,
where lay great stagnant pools of water and where grew all kinds of
strange plants and vines.Gage had been from the camp about thirty minutes when he came running
back, his face pale, and a fierce look in his eyes.cried Bowsprit, with an attempt at cheerfulness.What is it you have heard about, my hearty?""The serpent vine," answered Gage, wildly.I did not believe there was such a thing, but it tangled
my feet, it tried to twine about my legs, and I saw the little red
flowers opening and shutting like the lips of devils.""Fo' de Lawd's sake!de boss hab gone stark, starin' mad!"cried Black
Tom, staring at Leslie with bulging eyes."But I have thought of a way to
dispose of Frank Merriwell.Frank had listened to all this, and he noted that Gage actually seemed
like a maniac.Captain Bellwood, securely bound, was near Frank, to whom he now spoke:

"God pity you, my lad!He was bad enough before, but he seems to have
gone mad."Well, if that's to be the end of me, I'll have to take my medicine,"
came grimly from the lips of the undaunted boy captive.She is with friends of mine, and they will
fight for her as long as they are able to draw a breath."Now I care not if these wretches murder me!""I scarcely think they will murder you, captain.They have nothing in
particular against you; but Gage hates me most bitterly."snarled Leslie, who had overheard Frank's last words."I do hate you, and my hatred seems to have increased tenfold since last
night.I have been thinking--thinking how you have baffled me at every
turn whenever we have come together.I have decided that you are my evil
genius, and that I shall never have any luck as long as you live.One of us will not leave this swamp alive, and you
will be that one!""Go ahead with the funeral," said Frank, stoutly."If you have made up
your mind to murder me, I can't help myself; but one thing is
sure--you'll not hear me beg.""Wait till you know what your fate is to be.Boys, set his feet free,
and then follow me, with him between you."The cords which held Frank's feet were released, and he was lifted to a
standing position.Then he was marched along after Gage, who led the
way.Into the woods he was marched, and finally Gage came to a halt,
motioning for the others to stop.he cried, pointing; "there is the serpent vine!"On the ground before them, lay a mass of greenish vines, blossoming over
with a dark red flower.Harmless enough they looked, but, as Gage drew a
little nearer, they suddenly seemed to come to life, and they began
reaching toward his feet, twisting, squirming, undulating like a mass of
serpents.shouted Leslie--"there is the vine that feeds on flesh and
blood!See--see how it reached for my feet!It longs to grasp me, to
draw me into its folds, to twine about my body, my neck, to strangle
me!"The sailors shuddered and drew back, while Frank Merriwell's face was
very pale."It did fasten upon me," Gage continued."If I had not been ready and
quick with my knife, it would have drawn me into its deadly embrace.I
managed to cut myself free and escape."Then he turned to Frank, and the dancing light in his eyes was not a
light of sanity."Merriwell," he said, "the serpent vine will end your life, and you'll
never bother me any more!"He leaped forward and clutched the helpless captive, screaming:

"Thus I keep my promise!"And he flung Frank headlong into the clutch of the writhing vine!With his hands bound behind his back, unable to help himself, Frank
reeled forward into the embrace of the deadly vine, each branch of which
was twisting, curling, squirming like the arms of an octopus.He nearly plunged forward upon his face, but managed to recover and keep
on his feet.He felt the vine whip about his legs and fasten there tenaciously, felt
it twist and twine and crawl like a mass of serpents, and he knew he was
in the grasp of the frightful plant which till that hour he had ever
believed a creation of some romancer's feverish fancy.A great horror seemed to come upon him and benumb
his body and his senses.He could feel the horrid vines climbing and coiling about him, and he
was helpless to struggle and tear them away.He knew they were mounting
to his neck, where they would curl about his throat and choke the breath
of life from his body.It was a fearful fate--a terrible death.And there seemed no possible
way of escaping.Higher and higher climbed the vine, swaying and squirming, the blood-red
flowers opening and closing like lips of a vampire that thirsted for his
blood.A look of horror was frozen on Frank's face.His eyes bulged from his
head, and his lips were drawn back from his teeth.He did not cry out,
he did not seem to breathe, but he appeared to be turned to stone in the
grasp of the deadly plant.It was a dreadful sight, and the two sailors, rough and wicked men
though they were, were overcome by the spectacle.Shuddering and
gasping, they turned away.For the first time, Gage seemed to fully realize what he had done.He
covered his eyes with his hand and staggered backward, uttering a low,
groaning sound.Merriwell's staring eyes seemed fastened straight upon him with that
fearful stare, and the thought flashed through the mind of the wretched
boy that he should never forget those eyes."They will haunt me as long as I live!"Already he was seized by the pangs of remorse.Once more he looked at Frank, and once more those staring eyes turned
his blood to ice water.Then, uttering shriek after shriek, Gage turned and fled through the
swamp, plunging through marshy places and jungles, falling, scrambling
up, leaping, staggering, gasping for breath, feeling those staring eyes
at his back, feeling that they would pursue him to his doom.Scarcely less agitated and overcome, Bowsprit and the <DW64> followed,
and Frank Merriwell was abandoned to his fate.Frank longed for the use of his hands to tear away those fiendish vines.It was a horrible thing to stand and let them creep up, up, up, till
they encircled his throat and strangled him to death.Through his mind flashed a picture of himself as he would stand there
with the vines drawing tighter and tighter about his throat and his face
growing blacker and blacker, his tongue hanging out, his eyes starting
from their sockets.He came near shrieking for help, but the thought that the cry must reach
the ears of Leslie Gage kept it back, enabled him to choke it down.He had declared that Gage should not hear him beg for mercy or aid.Not
even the serpent vine and all its horrors could make him forget that
vow.The little red flowers were getting nearer and nearer to his face, and
they were fluttering with eagerness.He felt a sucking, drawing,
stinging sensation on one of his wrists, and he believed one of those
fiendish vampire mouths had fastened there.He swayed his body, he tried to move his feet, but he seemed rooted to
the ground.He did not have the strength to drag himself from that fatal
spot and from the grasp of the vine.His senses were in a maze, and the whole
world was reeling and romping around him.The trees became a band of
giant demons, winking, blinking, grinning at him, flourishing their arms
in the air, and dancing gleefully on every side to the sound of wild
music that came from far away in the sky.Then a smaller demon darted out from amid the trees, rushed at him,
clutched him, slashed, slashed, slashed on every side of him, dragged at
his collar, and panted in his ear:

"White boy fight--try to git away!Was it a dream--was it an hallucination?He
tore at the clinging vines, he fought with all his remaining strength,
he struggled to get away from those clinging things.All the while that other figure was slashing and cutting with something
bright, while the vine writhed and hissed like serpents in agony.How it was accomplished Frank could never tell, but he felt himself
dragged free of the serpent vine, dragged beyond its deadly touch, and
he knew it was no dream that he was free!A black mist hung before his eyes, but he looked through it and faintly
murmured:

"Socato, you have saved me!""Yes, white boy," replied the voice of the Seminole, "I found you just
in time.A few moments more and you be a dead one.""That is true, Socato--that is true!I can never
pay you for what you have done!"In truth the Indian had appeared barely in time to rescue Frank from the
vine, and it had been a desperate and exhausting battle.In another
minute the vine would have accomplished its work."I hear white boy cry out, and I see him run from this way," explained
the Seminole.Sailor men follow, and then I
come to see what scare them so.You knew how to fight the vine--how to cut
it with your knife, and so you saved me.""We must git 'way from here soon as can," declared the Indian."Bad
white men may not come back, and they may come back.They may want to
see what has happen to white boy."Frank knew this was true, but for some time he was not able to get upon
his feet and walk.At length the Indian assisted him, and, leaning on
Socato's shoulder, he made his way along.Avoiding the place where the sailors were camped, the Seminole proceeded
directly to the spot where his canoe was hidden.Frank got in, and
Socato took the paddle, sending the light craft skimming over the water.Straight to the strange hut where Frank and his companions had stopped
the previous night they made their way.The sun was shining into the heart of the great Dismal Swamp, and Elsie
Bellwood was at the door to greet Frank Merriwell.Elsie held out both hands, and there was a welcome light in her eyes.It
seemed to Frank that she was far prettier than when he had last seen her
in Fardale."Frank, I am so glad to see you!"He caught her hands and held them, looking into her eyes.The color came
into her cheeks, and then she noted his rumpled appearance, saw that he
was very pale, and cried:

"What is it, Frank?Socato grunted in a knowing way, but said nothing."It is nothing, Miss Bellwood," assured the boy."I have been through a
little adventure, that's all.He felt her fingers trembling in his clasp, and an electric thrill ran
over him.He remembered that at their last parting she had said it were
far better they should never meet again; but fate had thrown them
together, and now--what?He longed to draw her to him, to kiss her, to tell her how happy he was
at finding her, but he restrained the impulse.Then the voice of Barney Mulloy called from within the hut:

"Phwat ye goin' to do me b'y--shtand out there th' rist av th' doay?Whoy don't yez come in, Oi dunno?""Come in, Frank--come in," cried Professor Scotch."We have been worried
to death over you.Thought you were lost in the Everglades, or had
fallen into the hands of the enemy.""Your second thought was correct," smiled Frank, as he entered the hut,
with Elsie at his side.shouted the Irish boy, in astonishment."Ye don't mane
to say thim spalpanes caught yez?""That's what they did, and they came near cooking me, too."Frank then related the adventures that had befallen him since he started
out on his own hook to give Leslie Gage a surprise.He told how Gage had
made love to him in the boat, and Barney shrieked with laughter.Then he
related what followed, and how his life had been saved by the locket he
carried, and the professor groaned with dismay.Following this, he
related his capture by Gage and how the young desperado flung him, with
his hands bound, into the clutch of the serpent vine.The narrative first amused and then thrilled his listeners.Finally they
were horrified and appalled by the peril through which he had passed."It's Satan's own scum thot Gage is!""Iver let
me get a crack at th' loike av him and see phwat will happen to th'
whilp!"Then Frank explained how he had been saved by Socato, and the Seminole
found himself the hero of the hour."Soc, ould b'y," cried Barney, "thot wur th' bist job ye iver did, an'
Oi'm proud av yez!Ye'll niver lose anything by thot thrick, ayther."roared the little professor, wiping his eyes.Then the Seminole had his hand shaken in a manner and with a heartiness
that astonished him greatly."That was nothing," he declared, "Socato hates the snake vine--fight it
any time.When all had been told and the party had recovered from the excitement
into which they had been thrown, Barney announced that breakfast was
waiting.Elsie, for all of her happiness at meeting Frank, was so troubled about
her father that she could eat very little.Socato ate hastily, and then announced that he would go out and see what
he could do about rescuing Captain Bellwood.Barney wished to go with the Seminole, but Socato declared that he could
do much better alone, and hurriedly departed.Then Frank did his best to cheer Elsie, telling her that everything was
sure to come out all right, as the Indian could be trusted to outwit the
desperadoes and rescue the captain.Seeing Frank and Elsie much together, Barney drew the professor aside,
and whispered:

"It's a bit av a walk we'd better take in th' open air, Oi think.""But I don't need a walk," protested the little man."Yis ye do, profissor," declared the Irish boy, soberly."A man av your
studious habits nivver takes ixercoise enough.""But I do not care to expose myself outdoors.""Phwat's th' matther wid out dures, Oi dunno?""There's danger that Gage and his gang will appear."We can get back here aheed av thim, fer we won't go
fur enough to be cut off.""Then the exercise will not be beneficial, and I will remain here.""Profissor, yer head is a bit thick.Can't ye take a hint, ur is it a
kick ye nade, Oi dunno?""Young man, be careful what kind of language you use to me!""Oi'm spakin' United States, profissor; no Irishmon wauld iver spake
English av he could hilp it.""But such talk of thick heads and kicks--to me, sir, to me!""Well, Oi don't want to give yez a kick, but ye nade it.Ye can't see
thot it's alone a bit Frank an' th' litthle girrul would loike to be."did ye iver think ye'd loike to be alone wid a pretty swate
girrul, profissor?Come on, now, before Oi pick ye up an' lug ye out."So Barney finally induced the professor to leave the hut, but the little
man remained close at hand, ready to bolt in through the wide open door
the instant there was the least sign of danger.Left to themselves, Frank and Elsie chatted, talking over many things of
mutual interest.They sat very near together, and more and more Frank
felt the magnetism of the girl's winning ways and tender eyes.He drew
nearer and nearer, and, finally, although neither knew how it happened,
their hands met, their fingers interlocked, and then he was saying
swiftly, earnestly:

"Elsie, you cannot know how often I have thought of you since you left
me at Fardale.There was something wrong about that parting, Elsie, for
you refused to let me know where you were going, refused to write to me,
expressed a wish that we might never meet again."Her head was bowed, and her cheeks were very
pale."All the while," she softly said, "away down in my heart was a hope I
could not kill--a hope that we might meet again some day, Frank.""When we have to part again,
Elsie, you will not leave me as you did before?She was looking straight into his eyes now, her face was near his, and
the temptation was too great for his impulsive nature to resist.In a
moment his arm was about her neck, and he had kissed her.She quickly released herself from his hold and sprang to her feet, the
warm blood flushing her cheeks."We cannot always be right," she admitted; "but we should be right when
we can.Frank, Inza Burrage befriended me.She thinks more of you than
any one else in the wide world.He lifted his hand to a round hole in his coat where a bullet from
Leslie Gage's revolver had cut through, and beneath it he felt the
ruined and shattered locket that held Inza's picture.The forenoon passed, and the afternoon was well advanced, but still
Socato the Seminole did not return.But late in the afternoon a boat and a number of canoes appeared.In the
boat was Leslie Gage and the two sailors, Black Tom and Bowsprit."Phwat th'
dickens does this mane, Oi dunno?""It means trouble," said Frank, quickly."Have the rifles ready, and be
prepared for hot work.""Those must be Seminoles," said Frank."It is scarcely likely that they
are very dangerous."The boat containing the three white persons ran boldly up to the shore,
and Leslie Gage landed.Advancing a short distance toward the hut, the
door of which was securely closed, he cried:

"Hello in there!""Talk with him, Barney," Frank swiftly directed."The fellow does not
know I am alive, and I do not wish him to know it just now."So Barney returned:

"Hello, yersilf, an' see how ye loike it.""You people are in a bad trap," declared Gage, with a threatening air."Look," and he motioned toward the water, where the canoes containing
the Indians were lying, "these are my backers.There are twenty of them,
and I have but to say the word to have them attack this hut and tear it
to the ground.""Well, Oi dunno about thot," coolly retorted the Irish lad."We moight
have something to say in thot case.It's arrumed we are, an' we know how
to use our goons, me foine birrud.""If you were to fire a shot at one of these Indians it would mean the
death of you all."Well, we are arrumed with Winchester repeaters, an' it
moight make the death av thim all av we began shootin'.""They do not look very dangerous," said Frank."I'll wager something
Gage has hired the fellows to come here and make a show in order to
scare us into submitting.The chances are the Indians will not fight at
all.""You're not fools," said Gage, "and you will not do anything that means
the same as signing your death warrant.If you will come to reason,
we'll have no trouble.We want that girl, Miss Bellwood, and we will
have her.If you do not----"

He stopped suddenly, for there was a great shouting from the Indians.they cried, in tones that betokened the
greatest terror.Then they took to flight, paddling as if their very lives depended on
it.At the same time, the mysterious white canoe, still apparently without
an occupant, was seen coming swiftly toward them, gliding lightly over
the water in a most unaccountable manner.Exclamations of astonishment broke from the two sailors, and Leslie Gage
stared at the singular craft in profound astonishment.When the attention of the crowd was on the remarkable sight, Frank
unfastened the door and before Gage was aware of it, our hero was right
upon him.Frank shouted, pointing a revolver at the
fellow.Gage saw the boy he believed he had destroyed, uttered a wild shriek,
threw up his hands, and fell in a senseless heap to the ground.Frank swiftly lifted the fellow, and then ran into the cabin with him,
placing him on the couch.In fact, they seemed almost as badly
scared as the Indians, and they got away in their boat, rowing as if for
their very lives, soon passing from sight.exclaimed Barney Mulloy; "this is phwat Oi call a
ragion av wonders.It's ivery doay and almost ivery hour something
happens to astonish ye."Gage was made secure, so he could not get away when he recovered from
the swoon into which he seemed to have fallen.A short time after, Socato was seen returning, but he was alone in his
canoe."He has not found my father--my poor father!""Let's hear what he has to say."The bad white men leave their captive alone," said Socato, "and I
should have set him free, but the great white phantom came, and then the
white captive disappeared."Whom do you mean by the great white phantom?""The one who owns the canoe that goes alone--the one who built this
house and lives here sometimes.My people say he is
a phantom, for he can appear and disappear as he likes, and he commands
the powers of light and darkness.Socato knew that the bad white man had
hired a hunting party of my people to come here and appear before the
house to frighten you, but he knew you would not be frightened, and the
bad men could not get my people to aid them in a fight.Socato also knew
that the great white phantom sent his canoe to scare my people away, but
he does not know what the great white phantom has done with the man who
was a prisoner.""Well, it is possible the great white phantom will explain a few things
we do not understand," said Frank, "for here he comes in his canoe.""And father--my father is with him in the canoe!"screamed Elsie
Bellwood, in delight.The white canoe was approaching, still gliding noiselessly
over the water, without any apparent power of propulsion, and in it were
seated two men.One had a long white beard and a profusion of white
hair.He was dressed entirely in white, and sat in the stern of the
canoe.The other was Captain Justin Bellwood, quite unharmed, and
looking very much at his ease.The little party flocked to the shore to greet the captain, who waved
his hand and called reassuringly to Elsie.As soon as the canoe touched
and came to a rest, he stepped out and clasped his daughter in his arms,
saying, fervently:

"Heaven be thanked!we have come through many dangers, and we are free
at last!Neither of us has been harmed, and we will soon be out of this
fearful swamp."The man with the white hair and beard stepped ashore and stood regarding
the girl intently, paying no heed to the others.Captain Bellwood turned
to him, saying:

"William, this is my daughter, of whom I told you.Elsie, this is your
Uncle William, who disappeared many years ago, and has never been heard
from since till he set me free to-day, after I was abandoned by those
wretches who dragged us here.""And so I believed, but he still lives.Professor Scotch, I think we had
the pleasure of meeting in Fardale.Permit me to introduce you to
William Bellwood, one of the most celebrated electricians living
to-day."As he said this, Captain Bellwood made a swift motion which his brother
did not see.He touched his forehead, and the signal signified that
William Bellwood was not right in his mind.This the professor saw was
true when he shook hands with the man, for there was the light of
madness in the eyes of the hermit."My brother," continued Captain Bellwood, "has explained that he came
here to these wilds to continue his study of electricity alone and
undisturbed.He took means to keep other people from bothering him.This
canoe, which contains a lower compartment and a hidden propeller, driven
by electricity, was his invention.He has arrangements whereby he can
use a powerful search-light at night, and----"

"That search-light came near being the death of me," said Frank."He
turned it on me last night just in time to show me to my enemy.""He has many other contrivances," Captain Bellwood went on."He has
explained that, by means of electricity, he can make his canoe or
himself glow with a white light in the darkest night.""And he also states that he has wires connecting various batteries in
yonder hut, so that he can frighten away superstitious hunters who
otherwise might take possession of the hut and give him trouble.""Thot ixplains th' foire-allarum an' th' power
thot throwed me inther th' middle av th' flure!Oi nivver hearrud th'
bate av it!"At this moment, a series of wild shrieks came from the hut, startling
them all.Gage was still on the couch,
and he shrieked still louder when he saw Frank; an expression of the
greatest terror coming to his face.Then he began to rave incoherently, sometimes frothing at the mouth.Two days later a party of eight persons emerged from the wilds of the
great Dismal Swamp and reached a small settlement.They were Frank
Merriwell, Barney Mulloy, Professor Scotch, Leslie Gage, Captain
Bellwood and his brother William, Socato the Seminole, and last, but far
from least, Elsie Bellwood."He shall be given shelter and medical treatment," declared Frank; "and
I will see that all the bills are paid.""Thot's the only thing Oi have against ye, me b'y.Ye wur always letting
up on yer inemies at Fardale, an' ye shtill kape on doin' av it.""If I continue to do so, I shall have nothing to trouble my conscience."Frank did take care of Gage and see that he was given the best medical
aid that money could procure, and, as a result, the fellow was saved
from a madhouse, for he finally recovered.He seemed to appreciate the
mercy shown him by his enemy, for he wrote a letter to Frank that was
filled with entreaties for forgiveness and promised to try to lead a
different life in the future."That," said Frank, "is my reward for being merciful to an enemy."If Jack Jaggers did not perish in the Everglades, he disappeared.Ben
Bowsprit and Black Tom also vanished, and it is possible that they left
their bones in the great Dismal Swamp.William Bellwood, so long a hermit in the wilds of Florida, seemed glad
to leave that region.Leaving their friends in Florida, Frank, Barney and the professor next
moved northward toward Tennessee, Frank wishing to see some of the
battlegrounds of the Civil War.The boys planned a brief tour afoot and were soon on their way among the
Great Smoky Mountains.Professor Scotch had no heart for a "tour afoot" through the mountains,
and so he had stopped at Knoxville, where the boys were to join him
again in two or three weeks, by the end of which period he was quite
sure they would have enough of tramping.Frank and Barney were making the journey from Gibson's Gap to Cranston's
Cove, which was said to be a distance of twelve miles, but they were
willing to admit that those mountain miles were most disgustingly long.They had paused to rest, midway in the afternoon, where the road curved
around a spur of the mountain.Below them opened a vista of valleys and
"coves," hemmed in by wild, turbulent-appearing masses of mountains,
some of which were barren and bleak, seamed with black chasms, above
which threateningly hung grimly beetling crags, and some of which were
robed in dense wildernesses of pine, veiling their faces, keeping them
thus forever a changeless mystery.From their eyrie position it seemed that they could toss a pebble into
Lost Creek, which wound through the valley below, meandered for miles
amid the ranges, tunneling an unknown channel beneath the rock-ribbed
mountains, and came out again--where?Both boys had been silent and awe-stricken, gazing wonderingly on the
impressive scene and thinking of their adventures in New Orleans and in
Florida, when a faint cry seemed to float upward from the depths of the
valley.They listened, and some moments passed in silence, save for the peeping
cry of a bird in a thicket near at hand.Oi belave it wur imagination, Frankie," said the Irish lad, at
last."I do not think so," declared Frank, with a shake of his head."It was a
human voice, and if we were to shout it might be---- There it is again!"There could be no doubt this time, for they both heard the cry
distinctly."It comes from below," said Frank, quickly."Roight, me lad," nodded Barney."Some wan is in difficulty down there,
and' it's mesilf thot don't moind givin' thim a lift."Getting a firm hold on a scrub bush, Frank leaned out over the verge and
looked down into the valley."Look, Barney--look down there amid those
rocks just below the little waterfall.""She has seen us, and is signaling for us to come down.""Instanter, as they say out West."The boys were soon hurrying down the mountain road, a bend of which
quickly carried them beyond view of the person near the waterfall.It was nearly an hour later when Frank and Barney approached the little
waterfall, having left the road and followed the course of the stream.anxiously asked Barney, who was behind."Can't tell yet," was the reply."Will be able to see in a minute, and
then---- She is there, sure as fate!"In another moment they came out in full view of a girl of eighteen or
nineteen, who was standing facing the waterfall, her back toward a great
rock, a home-made fishing pole at her feet.The girl was dressed in homespun, the skirt being short and reaching
but a little below the knees, and a calico sunbonnet was thrust half off
her head.Frank paused, with a low exclamation of admiration, for the girl made a
most strikingly beautiful picture, and Frank had an eye for beauty.Nearly all the mountain girls the boys had seen were stolid and
flat-appearing, some were tall and lank, but this girl possessed a
figure that seemed perfect in every detail.Her hair was bright auburn, brilliant and rich in tint, the shade that
is highly esteemed in civilization, but is considered a defect by the
mountain folk.Frank thought it the most beautiful hair he had ever
seen.Her eyes were brown and luminous, and the color of health showed through
the tan upon her cheeks.Her parted lips showed white, even teeth, and
the mouth was most delicately shaped.gasped Barney, at Frank's shoulder."Phwat have we struck, Oi
dunno?"Then the girl cried, her voice full of impatience:

"You-uns has shorely been long enough in gittin' har!"Frank staggered a bit, for he had scarcely expected to hear the uncouth
mountain dialect from such lips as those but he quickly recovered,
lifted his hat with the greatest gallantry, and said:

"I assure you, miss, that we came as swiftly as we could."Ef you-uns had been maounting boys, you'd been har in
less'n half ther time.""I presume that is true; but, you see, we did not know the shortest way,
and we were not sure you wanted us.""Wal, what did you 'low I whooped at ye fur ef I didn't want ye?I
nighly split my throat a-hollerin' at ye before ye h'ard me at all."Frank was growing more and more dismayed, for he had never before met a
strange girl who was quite like this, and he knew not what to say."Now that we have arrived," he bowed, "we shall be happy to be of any
possible service to you.""Dunno ez I want ye now," she returned, with a toss of her head.gurgled Barney, at Frank's ear."It's a doaisy she is,
me b'y!"Frank resolved to take another tack, and so he advanced, saying boldly
and resolutely:

"Now that you have called us down here, I don't see how you are going to
get rid of us.You want something of us, and we'll not leave you till we
find out what it is."The girl did not appear in the least alarmed.Instead of that, she
laughed, and that laugh was like the ripple of falling water."Wal, now you're talkin'!"she cried, with something like a flash of
admiration."Mebbe you-uns has got some backbone arter all."I have not looked at mine for so long that I am not sure what condition
it is in, but I know I have one.""Then move this rock har that hez caught my foot an' holds it.That's
what I wanted o' you-uns."She lifted her skirt a bit, and, for the first time, they saw that her
ankle had been caught between two large rocks, where she was held fast."Kinder slomped in thar when I war fishin'," she explained, "an' ther
big rock dropped over thar an' cotched me fast when I tried ter pull
out.That war nigh two hour ago, 'cordin' ter ther sun.""And you have been standing like that ever since?"cried Frank, in
dismay."Lively, Barney--get hold here!we must have her
out of that in a hurry!""Thot's phwat we will, ur we'll turrun th' ould mountain over!"shouted
the Irish lad, as he flew to the aid of his friend.The girl looked surprised and pleased, and then she said:

"You-uns ain't goin' ter move that rock so easy, fer it's hefty.""But your ankle--it must have crushed your ankle."Ye see it couldn't pinch harder ef it tried, fer them rocks
ain't built so they kin git nigher together; but it's jest made a
reg'ler trap so I can't pull my foot out."It was no easy thing for the boys to get hold of the rock in a way to
exert their strength, but they finally succeeded, and then Frank gave
the word, and they strained to move it.It started reluctantly, as if
loath to give up its fair captive, but they moved it more and more, and
she was able to draw her foot out.Then, when she was free, they let go,
and the rock fell back with a grating crash against the other."You-uns have done purty fair fer boys," said the girl, with a saucy
twinkle in her brown eyes."S'pose I'll have ter thank ye, fer I mought
a stood har consider'bul longer ef 'tadn't bin fer ye.an' whar be ye goin'?"Frank introduced himself, and then presented Barney, after which he
explained how they happened to be in the Great Smoky Mountains.She watched him closely as he spoke, noting every expression, as if a
sudden suspicion had come upon her, and she was trying to settle a doubt
in her mind.When Frank had finished, the girl said:

"Never heard o' two boys from ther big cities 'way off yander comin' har
ter tromp through ther maountings jest fer ther fun o' seein' ther
scenery an' ther folks.I s'pose we're kinder curi's 'pearin' critters
ter city folks, an' you-uns may be har ter cotch one o' us an' put us in
a cage fer exhibition."She uttered the words in a way that brought a flush to Frank's cheeks,
and he hastened to protest, halting in confusion when he tried to speak
her name, which he did not know as yet.A ripple of sunshine seemed to break over her face, and she laughed
outright, swiftly saying:

"Don't you-uns mind me.I'm p'izen rough, but I don't mean half I say.I
kin see you is honest an' squar, though somebody else mought think by
yer way that ye warn't.My name's Kate Kenyon, an' I live down toward
ther cove.I don't feel like fishin' arter this, an' ef you-uns is goin'
that way, I'll go 'long with ye."She picked up her pole, hooked up the line, and prepared to accompany
them.They were pleased to have her as a companion.Indeed, Frank was more
than pleased, for he saw in this girl a singular character.Illiterate
though she seemed, she was pretty, vivacious, and so bright that it was
plain education and refinement would make her most fascinating and
brilliant.The boys did not get to Cranston's Cove that night, for Kate Kenyon
invited them to stop and take supper at her home, and they did so.Kate's home was much like the rough cabins of other mountain folks,
except that flowering vines had been trained to run up the sides and
over the door, while two large bushes were loaded with roses in front of
the house.Kate's mother was in the doorway as they approached.She was a tall,
angular woman, with a stolid, expressionless face."Har, mammy, is some fellers I brung ter see ye," said this girl.Merriwell, an' that un is Mr.The boys lifted their hats, and bowed to the woman as if she were a
society queen."What be you-uns doin' 'round these parts?"Frank explained, seeing a look of suspicion and distrust deepening in
her face as he spoke."An' what do you-uns want o'
me?""Your daughter invited us to call and take supper," said Frank, coolly."I ain't uster cookin' flip-flaps fer city chaps, an' I don't b'lieve
you kin eat the kind o' fodder we-uns is uster."The boys hastened to assure her that they would be delighted to eat the
plainest of food, and their eagerness brought a merry laugh from the
lips of the girl."You-uns is consid'ble amusin'," she said.I
asked 'em to come, mammy.It's no more'n fair pay fer what they done fer
me."Then she explained how she had been caught and held by the rocks, and
how the boys had seen her from the mountain road and come to her
rescue.The mother's face did not soften a bit as she listened, but, when Kate
had finished, she said:

"They're yore comp'ny.So the boys were asked into the cabin, and Kate herself prepared supper.It was a plain meal, but Frank noticed that everything looked neat and
clean about the house, and both lads relished the coarse food.Indeed,
Barney afterward declared that the corn bread was better than the finest
cake he had ever tasted.Frank was particularly happy at the table, and the merry stories he told
kept Kate laughing, and, once or twice, brought a grim smile to the face
of the woman.After supper they went out in front of the cabin, where they could look
up at the wild mass of mountains, the peaks of which were illumined by
the rays of the setting sun.Kenyon filled and lighted a cob pipe.She sat and puffed away,
staring straight ahead in a blank manner.Just how it happened Frank himself could not have told, but Barney fell
to talking to the woman in his whimsical way, while Frank and Kate
wandered away a short distance, and sat on some stones which had been
arranged as a bench in a little nook near Lost Creek.From this position
they could hear Barney's rich brogue and jolly laugh as he recounted
some amusing yarn, and, when the wind was right, a smell of the black
pipe would be wafted to them."Do you know," said Frank, "this spot is so wild and picturesque that it
fascinates me.I should like to stop here two or three days and rest.""Better not," said the girl, shortly."Wal, it mought not be healthy.""I wonder ef you air so ignerent, or be you jest makin' it?""Honestly and truly, I do not understand you.""Wal, I kinder 'low you-uns is all right, but thar's others might not
think so.S'pose you know what moonshine is?""Yes; it is illicitly distilled whiskey."Wal, ther revenues say thar's moonshine made round these
parts.They come round ev'ry little while to spy an' cotch ther folks
that makes it.""By revenues you mean the officers of the government?""Wal, they may be officers, but they're a difrrunt kind than Jock
Hawkins.""He's ther sheriff down to ther cove.Jock Hawkins knows better'n to
come snoopin' 'round, an' he's down on revenues ther same as ther rest
o' us is.""Then you do not like the revenue officers?"cried the girl, starting up, her eyes seeming to blaze in
the dusky twilight."I hate 'em wuss'n pizen!An' I've got good cause
fer hatin' 'em."The boy saw he had touched a tender spot, and he would have turned the
conversation in another channel, but she was started, and she went on
swiftly:

"What right has ther gover'ment to take away anybody's honest means o'
earnin' a livin'?What right has ther gover'ment to send spies up har
ter peek an' pry an' report on a man as is makin' a little moonshine ter
sell that he may be able ter git bread an' drink fer his fam'ly?What
right has ther gover'ment ter make outlaws an' crim'nals o' men as
wouldn't steal a cent that didn't b'long ter them if they was starvin'?"Frank knew well enough the feeling of most mountain folks toward the
revenue officers, and he knew it was a useless task to attempt to show
them where they were in the wrong."Yes, I has good right to hate ther revenues, an' I do!Didn't they
pester my pore old daddy fer makin' moonshine!Didn't they hunt him
through ther maountings fer weeks, an' keep him hidin' like a dog!An'
didn't they git him cornered at last in Bent Coin's old cabin, an' when
he refused ter come out an' surrender, an' kep' 'em off with his gun,
didn't they shoot him so he died three days arter in my arms!Wal, I've got good reason ter hate 'em!"Kate was wildly excited, although she held her voice down, as if she did
not wish her mother to hear what she was saying.Frank was sitting so
near that he felt her arm quivering against his."I has more than that to hate 'em fer!Whar is my brother Rufe, ther best boy that ever drored a breath?Ther
revenues come fer him, an' they got him.Thar war a trial, an' they
proved ez he'd been consarned in makin' moonshine.He war convicted, an'
he's servin' his time.Wal, thar's nuthin' I hate wuss on this
earth!""You have had hard luck," said Frank, by way of saying something."It's
lucky for us that we're not revenues.""Yer right thar," she nodded."I didn't know but ye war at first, but I
changed my mind later.""Wal, ye're young, an' you-uns both has honest faces."I don't suppose they have been able to check the making of
moonshine--that is, not to any extent?""He makes more whiskey in a week than all ther others in this region
afore him made in a month.""He must be smarter than the others before him.""Wal, he's not afeared o' ther revenues, an' he's a mystery to ther men
ez works fer him right along.""None o' them has seen his face, an' they don't know Who he is.They
ain't been able to find out.""Wal, Con Bean war shot through ther shoulder fer follerin' Muriel, an'
Bink Mower got it in ther leg fer ther same trick.""I rather admire this Muriel," laughed Frank."He may be in unlawful
business, but he seems to be a dandy.""He keeps five stills runnin' all ther time, an' he has a way o' gittin'
ther stuff out o' ther maountings an' disposin' of it.But I'm talkin'
too much, as Wade would say.""He's Wade Miller, a partic'lar friend o' our'n sence Rufe war tooken by
ther revenues.Wade has been good to mammy an' me."If I lived near, I might try to bother Wade
somewhat."It was now duskish, but he was so near that
he could see her eyes through the twilight."I dunno what you-uns means," she said, slowly, her voice falling."Wade
would be powerful bad to bother.He's ugly sometimes, an' he's jellus o'
me.""Wal, he's tryin' ter, but I don't jes' snuggle ter him ther way I might
ef I liked him right.Thar's something about him, ez I don't edzac'ly
like.""That makes it rather one-sided, and makes me think all the more that I
should try to bother him if I lived near.Do you know, Miss Kenyon, that
you are an exceptionally pretty girl?""Hair that would make you the envy of a society belle.It is the
handsomest hair I ever saw.""Now you're makin' fun o' me, an' I don't like that."She drew away as if offended, and he leaned toward her, eager to
convince her of his sincerity."Indeed, I am doing nothing of the sort," he protested."The moment I
saw you to-day I was struck by the beauty of your hair.But that is not
the only beautiful feature about you, Miss Kenyon.Your mouth is a
perfect Cupid's bow, and your teeth are like pearls, while you have a
figure that is graceful and exquisite.""Never nobody talked to me like that afore," she murmured."Round har
they jes' say, 'Kate, you'd be a rippin' good looker ef it warn't fer
that red hair o' yourn.'An' they've said it so much that I've come to
hate my hair wuss'n pizen."Her hand found his, and they were sitting very near together."I took to you up by ther fall ter-day," she went on, in a low tone."Now, don't you git skeered, fer I'm not goin' to be foolish, an' I know
I'm not book-learned an' refined, same ez your city gals.We kin be
friends, can't we?"Frank had begun to regret his openly expressed admiration, but now he
said:

"To be sure we can be friends, Miss Kenyon.""I am sure I shall esteem your friendship very highly.""Wall, partic'ler friends don't call each other miss an' mister.I'll
agree ter call you Frank, ef you'll call me Kate.""I am going away to-morrow," he thought.A fierce exclamation close at hand, the cracking of a twig, a heavy
step, and then a panther-like figure leaped out of the dusk, and flung
itself upon Frank.[Illustration: "Kate grasped the assailant by the collar, and with
astonishing strength, pulled him off the prostrate lad."(See page
218)]




CHAPTER XL.The attack was so sudden and fierce that the boy was hurled to the
ground before he could make a move to protect himself.A hand fastened on his throat, pinning him fast.The man's knee crushed
into his stomach, depriving him of breath.The man's other hand snatched
out something, and lifted it aloft.A knife was poised above Frank's heart, and in another moment the blade
would have been buried to the hilt in the lad's bosom.Without uttering a sound, Kate Kenyon grasped the wrist of the
murderous-minded man, gave it a wrench with all her strength, which was
not slight, and forced him to drop the knife."You don't murder anybody, Wade Miller!""I'll choke ther life outen him!"snarled the fellow, as he tried to
fasten both hands on Frank's throat.By this time the boy had recovered from the surprise and shock, and he
was ready to fight for his life.Kate grasped the assailant by the collar, and, with astonishing
strength, pulled him off the prostrate lad.In the twinkling of an eye, Frank came to his feet, and he was ready for
a new assault.Snarling and growling like a mad dog, the man scrambled up and lunged
toward the boy, trying to grasp him.Frank was a skillful boxer, and now his skill came into play, for he
dodged under the man's right arm, whirled like a cat, and struck the
fellow behind the ear.sounded the blow, sending the assailant staggering, and Frank
followed it up by leaping after him and striking him again, the second
blow having the force of the lad's strength and the weight of his body.It seemed that the man was literally knocked "spinning," and he did not
stop till he landed in the creek."Wal," exclaimed the girl, "I 'low you kin take keer o' yerself now!""I rather think so," came coolly from the boy."He caught me foul, and I
did not have a show at first."It was a case of jealousy, and he had aroused the worst
passions of the man who admired Kate Kenyon.Miller came scrambling and
snorting from the water, and Barney Mulloy rushed toward the spot,
crying:

"Pwhat's th' row, Frankie, me b'y?Do ye nade inny av me hilp?"So far, I am all right, thanks to Miss Kenyon."breathed the mountain maid, in sincere admiration."I didn't s'pose city chaps knowed how ter fight.""Some do," laughed Frank, keeping his eyes on Miller.panted the man, springing toward Frank, and then
halting suddenly, and throwing up his hand.Frank knew this well enough, and he was expecting just such a move, so
it happened that the words had scarcely left the girl's lips when the
revolver was sent flying from Wade Miller's hand.The boy had leaped forward, and, with one skillful kick, disarmed his
foe by knocking the weapon out of his hand.Miller seemed dazed for a moment, and then he started for Frank, once
more grinding his teeth."Oh, let me take a hand in this!"cried Barney Mulloy, who was eager for
a fight."Me blud is gittin' shtagnant.""Well, you have tried that trick twice, but I do not see that you have
succeeded to any great extent.""I'll hammer yer life out o' yer carcass with my bare hands!""Possibly that will not be such a very easy trick to do."The boy's coolness seemed to add to the fury of his assailant, and the
man made another rush, which was easily avoided by Frank, who struck
Miller a stinging blow."You'd better stop, Wade," advised the girl."He-uns is too much fer
you-uns, an' that's plain enough.""Oh, I'll show ye--I'll show ye!"There was no longer any reason in the man's head, and Frank saw that he
must subdue the fellow some way.Miller was determined to grapple with
the boy, and Frank felt that he would find the mountaineer had the
strength of an ox, for which reason he must keep clear of those grasping
hands.For some moments Frank had all he could do to avoid Miller, who seemed
to have grown stolid to the lad's blows.At last, Frank darted in,
caught the man behind, lifted him over one hip, and dashed him headlong
to the ground."Wal, that's the beatenest I ever saw!"cried Kate Kenyon, whose
admiration for Frank now knew no bounds."You-uns is jes' a terror!""Whoy, thot's fun fer Frankie," he declared.Miller groaned, and sat up, lifting his hands to his head, and looking
about him in a dazed way."Ye run ag'in' a fighter this time, Wade," said the girl."He done ye,
an' you-uns is ther bully o' these parts!""It was an accident," mumbled the man."I couldn't see ther critter
well, an' so he kinder got----"

"That won't go, Wade," half laughed the girl."He done you fa'r an'
squar', an' it's no us' ter squawk.""An' ye're laffin' 'bout it, be ye, Kate?"Better let him erlone, Wade.You-uns has made fool enough o' yerself.Ye tried ter kill me, an'----"

"What I saw made me do it!""He war makin' love ter ye,
Kate--an' you-uns liked it!""Wal, Wade Miller, what is that ter you-uns?""He has a right ter make love ter me ef he wants ter.""Oh, yes, he has a right, but his throat'll be slit before long, mark
what I say!""Ef anything o' that kind happens, Wade Miller, I'll know who done it,
an' I swa'r I'll never rest till I prove it agin' ye.""I don't keer, Kate," muttered the man, getting on his feet and standing
there sulkily before them."Ef I can't hev ye, I sw'ar no other critter
shall!"I've stood all I kin from you, an' from now on
I don't stan' no more.Arter this you-uns an' me-uns ain't even
friends."He fell back a step, as if he had been struck a blow, and then he
hoarsely returned:

"All right, Kate.I ain't ter be thrown
aside so easy.As fer them city chaps, ther maountings ain't big enough
ter hold them an' me.Wade Miller has some power, an' I wouldn't give a
snap for their lives.The Black Caps don't take ter strangers much, an'
they know them critters is hyar.I'm goin' now, but that don't need ter
mean that I'll stay away fer long."He turned, and, having picked up his revolver, strode away into the
darkness, quickly disappearing.Kate's trembling hand fell on Frank's arm, and she panted into his ear:

"You-uns must git out o' ther maountings quick as you kin, fer Wade
Miller means what he says, an' he'll kill ye ef you stay hyar!"Frank Merriwell's blood was aroused, and he did not feel like letting
Wade Miller drive him like a hunted dog from the mountains."By this time I should think you would have confidence in my ability to
take care of myself against this man Miller," he said, somewhat testily."Yo're ther best fighter I ever saw, but that won't'mount ter anything
agin' ther power Miller will set on yer.He's pop-ler, is Wade Miller,
an' he'll have ther hull maountings ter back him.""I shall not run for Miller and all his friends.Right is right, and I
have as good right here as he."cried Kate, admiringly; "hang me ef I don't like you-uns'
pluck.You may find that you'll need a friend afore yo're done with
Wade.Ef ye do--wal, mebbe Kate Kenyon won't be fur off.""It is a good thing to know I shall have one
friend in the mountains."Kenyon was seen stolidly standing in
the dusk."Mebbe you-uns will find my Kate ther best friend ye could
have.Come, gal, it's time ter g'win."So they entered the cabin, and Barney found an opportunity to whisper to
Frank:

"She's a corker, me b'y!an' Oi think she's shtuck on yez.Kenyon declared she was tired,
and intended to go to bed.She apologized for the bed she had to give
the boys, but they assured her that they were accustomed to sleeping
anywhere, and that the bed would be a positive luxury."Such slick-tongued chaps I never did see before," declared the old
woman."They don't seem stuck up an' lofty, like most city fellers.Really, they make me feel right to home in my own house!"She said this in a whimsical way that surprised Frank, who fancied Mrs.Kate bade them good-night, and they retired, which they were glad to do,
as they were tired from the tramp of the day.Frank was awakened by a sharp shake, and his first thought was of
danger, but his hand did not reach the revolver he had placed beneath
the pillow, for he felt something cold against his temple, and heard a
voice hiss:

"Be easy, you-uns!Ef ye make a jowl, yo're ter be shot!"Barney was awakened at the same time, and the boys found they were in
the clutches of strong men.The little room seemed filled with men, and
the lads instantly realized they were in a bad scrape.Through the small window sifted the white moonlight, showing that every
man wore a black, pointed cap and hood, which reached to his shoulders.In this hood arrangement great holes were cut for the eyes, and some had
slits cut for their mouths.was the thought that flashed through Frank's mind.The revolvers pressed against the heads of the boys kept them from
defending themselves or making an outcry.They were forced to get up and
dress, after which they were passed through the open window, like
bundles, their hands having been tied behind them.Other black-hooded men were outside, and horses were near at hand.But when he thought how tired they had been, he did not wonder that both
had slept soundly while the men slipped into the house by the window,
which had been readily and noiselessly removed.It did not take the men long to get out as they had entered.Then Frank
and Barney were placed on horses, being tied there securely, and the
party was soon ready to move.They rode away, and the horses' feet gave out no sound, which explained
why they had not aroused anybody within the cabin.The hoofs of the animals were muffled.Frank wondered what Kate Kenyon would think when morning came and she
found her guests gone."She will believe we rose in the night, and ran away.I hate to have her
believe me a coward."Then he fell to wondering what the men would do with himself and Barney.They will not dare to do anything more than
run us out of this part of the country."Although he told himself this, he was far from feeling sure that the men
would do nothing else.He had heard of the desperate deeds perpetrated
by the widely known "White Caps," and it was not likely that the Black
Caps were any less desperate and reckless.As they were leaving the vicinity of the cabin, one of the horses
neighed loudly, causing the leader of the party to utter an exclamation
of anger."Ef that 'rousts ther gal, she's li'bul ter be arter us in a hurry," one
of the men observed.The party hurried forward, soon passing from view of the cabin, and
entering the shadow that lay blackly in the depths of the valley.They rode about a mile, and then they came to a halt at a command from
the leader, and Frank noticed with alarm that they had stopped beneath a
large tree, with wide-spreading branches."This looks bad for us, old man," he whispered to Barney."Thot's pwhat it does, Frankie," admitted the Irish lad."Oi fale
throuble coming this way."The horsemen formed a circle about the captives, moving at a signal from
the leader, who did not seem inclined to waste words."Brothers o' ther Black Caps," said the leader, "what is ther fate
we-uns gives ter revenues?"Every man in the circle uttered the word, and they spoke all together."Now, why are we assembled ter-night?""Ter dispose o' spies," chorused the Black Caps.Each one of the black-hooded band extended a hand and pointed straight
at the captive boys."They shall be hanged," solemnly said the men.cried the leader, as if well satisfied.In a moment one of the men brought forth a rope.This was long enough to
serve for both boys, and it was quickly cut in two pieces, while
skillful hands proceeded to form nooses."Frankie," said Barney Mulloy, sadly, "we're done for.""It looks that way," Frank was forced to admit."Oi wouldn't moind so much," said the Irish lad, ruefully, "av we could
kick th' booket foighting fer our loives; but it is a bit harrud ter go
under widout a chance to lift a hand.""That's right," cried Frank, as he strained fiercely at the cords which
held his hands behind his back."It is the death of a criminal, and I
object to it."The leader of the Black Caps rode close to the boys, leaned forward in
his saddle, and hissed in Frank's ear:

"It's my turn now!""We-uns is goin' ter put two revenues
out o' ther way, that's all!""It's murder," cried Frank, in a ringing tone."You know we are not
revenue spies!We can prove that we are what we
claim to be--two boys who are tramping through the mountains for
pleasure.Will you kill us without giving us a chance to prove our
innocence?""It's ther same ol' whine," he said."Ther revenues alwus cry baby when
they're caught.You-uns can't fool us, an' we ain't got time ter waste
with ye.About the boys' necks the fatal ropes were quickly adjusted."If you murder us, you will find you have not
killed two friendless boys.We have friends--powerful friends--who will
follow this matter up--who will investigate it.You will be hunted down
and punished for the crime."Do you-uns think ye're stronger an' more
po'erful than ther United States Gover'ment?Ther United States
loses her spies, an' she can't tell who disposed o' 'em.We won't be
worried by all yore friends."He made another movement, and the rope ends were flung over a limb that
was strong enough to bear both lads.Hope was dying within Frank Merriwell's breast.At last he had reached
the end of his adventurous life, which had been short and turbulent.He
must die here amid these wild mountains, which flung themselves up
against the moonlit sky, and the only friend to be with him at the end
was the faithful friend who must die at his side.Frank's blood ran cold and sluggish in his veins.The spring night had
seemed warm and sweet, filled with the droning of insects; but now there
was a bitter chill in the air, and the white moonlight seemed to take on
a crimson tinge, as of blood.The boy's nature rebelled against the thought of meeting death in such a
manner.It was spring-time amid the mountains; with him it was the
spring-time of life.He had enjoyed the beautiful world, and felt strong
and brave to face anything that might come; but this he had not reckoned
on, and it was something to cause the stoutest heart to shake.Over the eastern mountains, craggy, wild, barren or pine-clad, the
gibbous moon swung higher and higher.The heavens were full of stars,
and every star seemed to be an eye that was watching to witness the
consummation of the tragedy down there in that little valley, through
which Lost Creek flowed on to its unknown destination.The silence was broken by a sound that made every black-hooded man start
and listen.Sweet and mellow and musical, from afar through the peaceful night, came
the clear notes of a bugle.Ta-ra-ta-ra-ta-ra-tar!Ta-ra-ta-ra-ta-ra-tar!A fierce exclamation broke from the lips of the leader of the Black
Caps, and he grated:

"Muriel, by ther livin' gods!Quick, boys--finish this
job, an' git!""If that is Muriel, wait
for him--let him pronounce our fate.He is the chief of you all, and he
shall say if we are revenue spies."You-uns know too much, fer ye've called my name!Ta-ra-ta-ra-ta-ra-tar!From much nearer, came the sound of the bugle, awakening hundreds of
mellow echoes, which were flung from crag to crag till it seemed that
the mountains were alive with buglers.The clatter of a horse's iron-shod feet could be heard, telling that the
rider was coming like the wind down the valley."Cut free ther feet o' ther pris'ners!"panted the leader of the Black
Caps.Muriel will be here in a few shakes, an' we-uns must
be done.Ta-ra-ta-ra-ta-ra-tar!Through the misty moonlight a coal-black horse, bearing a rider who once
more awakens the clamoring echoes with his bugle, comes tearing at a mad
gallop.repeats Wade Miller, fiercely, as the black-hooded men
seem to hesitate.One of the men utters the command, and his companions hesitate."Muriel is death on revernues," says the one who had spoken, "an' thar
ain't any reason why we-uns shouldn't wait fer him."More than half the men agree with the one who has interrupted the
execution, filling Wade Miller with unutterable rage.snarled the chief ruffian of the party."I am leadin' you-uns
now, an' ye've gotter do ez I say.I order ye ter string them critters
up!"Nearer and nearer came the clattering hoof-beats."Av we can have wan minute more!""Half a minute will do," returned Frank."We refuse ter obey ye now," boldly spoke the man who had commanded his
companions to stop."Muriel has signaled ter us, an' he means fer us ter
wait till he-uns arrives."He snatched out a revolver, pointed it straight at Frank's breast, and
fired!Just as the desperate ruffian was pulling the trigger, the man nearest
him struck up his hand, and the bullet passed through Frank's hat,
knocking it to the ground.Miller was furious as a maniac, but, at this moment, the black horse
and the dashing rider burst in upon the scene, plunged straight through
the circle, halting at the side of the imperiled lads, the horse being
flung upon its haunches."Wal, what be you-uns doin'?""What work
is this, that I don't know erbout?"Wade Miller cowered before the chief of the
moonshiners, trying to hide the revolver.Muriel's eyes, gleaming through the twin holes of the mask he wore,
found Miller, and the clear voice cried:

"You-uns has been lettin' this critter lead ye inter somethin'!An' it's
fair warnin' I gave him ter keep clear o' meddlin' with my business."The boys gazed at the moonshiner chief in amazement, for Muriel looked
no more than a boy as he sat there on his black horse, and his voice
seemed the voice of a boy instead of that of a man.Yet it was plain
that he governed these desperate ruffians of the mountains with a hand
of iron, and they feared him."We-uns war 'bout ter hang two revernues," explained Miller."How long sence ther gover'ment has
been sendin' boys hyar ter spy on us?""They know what happens ter ther men they send," muttered Miller."Wal, 'tain't like they'd be sendin' boys arter men failed.""That's ther way they hope ter fool us.""An' how do you know them-uns is revernues?""We jest s'picions it.""An' you-uns war hangin' 'em on s'picion, 'thout lettin' me know?""We never knows whar ter find ye, Muriel.""That is nary excuse, fer ef you-uns had held them-uns a day I'd knowed
it.It looks like you-uns war in a monstr'us hurry.""It war he-uns," declared one of the black hoods, pointing to Miller."We don't gener'ly waste much time in dinkerin' 'roun' with anybody
we-uns thinks is revernues," said Miller."Wal, we ain't got ther record o' killin' innercent boys, an' we don't
begin now.Two men hastened to obey the order, while Miller sat and grated his
teeth.As this was being done, Muriel asked:

"What war you-uns doin' with that revolver when I come?I heard ye
shoot, an' I saw ther flash.Miller stammered and stuttered till Muriel repeated the question, his
voice cold and hard, despite its boyish caliber."Wal," said Wade, reluctantly, "I'll have ter tell yer.I shot at
he-uns," and he pointed at Frank."I thought so," was all Muriel said.When the ropes were removed from the necks of the boys, Muriel directed
that their feet be tied again, and their eyes blindfolded.These orders were attended to with great swiftness, and then the
moonshiner chief said:

"Follow!"Out they rode from beneath the tree, and away through the misty
moonlight.Frank and Barney could not see, but they felt well satisfied with their
lot, for they had been saved from death for the time being, and,
somehow, they felt that Muriel did not mean to harm them."Frank," whispered Barney, "are yez there?""Here," replied Frank, close at hand."It's dead lucky we are to be livin', me b'y."I feel like singing a song of praise and
thanksgiving.But we're not out of the woods yet.""Thot Muriel is a dandy, Frankie!Oi'm shtuck on his stoyle."I wonder how he happened to appear at such an
opportune moment?""Nivver a bit do Oi know, but it's moighty lucky fer us thot he did."Frank fell to speculating over the providential appearance of the
moonshiner chief.It was plain that Muriel must have known that
something was happening, and he had signaled with the bugle to the Black
Caps.In all probability, other executions had taken place beneath that
very tree, for the young chief came there direct, without hesitation.For nearly an hour they seemed to ride through the night, and then they
halted.The boys were removed from the horses and compelled to march
into some kind of a building.After some moments, their hands were freed, and, tearing away the
blindfolds, they found themselves in a low, square room, with no
windows, and a single door.With his back to the door, stood Muriel.The light of a swinging oil lamp illumined the room.Muriel leaned gracefully against the door, his arms folded, and his eyes
gleaming where the lamplight shone on them through the twin holes in the
sable mask.The other moonshiners had disappeared, and the boys were alone in that
room with the chief of the mountain desperadoes.There was something strikingly cool and self-reliant in Muriel's
manner--something that caused Frank to think that the fellow, young as
he was, feared nothing on the face of the earth.At the same time there was no air of bravado or insolence about that
graceful pose and the quiet manner in which he was regarding them.Instead of that, the moonshiner was a living interrogation point,
everything about him seeming to speak the question that fell from his
lips."You must know
that we will lie if we are, and so you will hear our denial anyway."Look hyar--she tol' me fair an' squar' that you-uns warn't revernues,
but I dunno how she could tell."Frank fancied that he knew, but he put the question, and Muriel
answered:

"Ther gal that saved yore lives by comin' ter me an' tellin' me ther
boys had taken you outer her mammy's house."She did save our lives, for if you had been one minute
later you would not have arrived in time.Muriel moved uneasily, and he did not seem pleased by Frank's words,
although his face could not be seen.It was some moments before he
spoke, but his voice was strangely cold and hard when he did so."It's well ernough fer you-uns ter remember her, but ye'd best take car'
how ye speak o' her.She's got friends in ther maountings--true
friends."Frank was startled, and he felt the hot blood rush to his face.Then, in
a moment, he cried:

"Friends!Well, she has no truer friends than the boys she saved
to-night!I hope you will not misconstrue our words, Mr.A sound like a smothered laugh came from behind that baffling mask, and
Muriel said:

"Yo're hot-blooded.I war simply warnin' you-uns in advance, that's all.We esteem Miss Kenyon too highly to say
anything that can give a friend of hers just cause to strike against
us.""Wal, city chaps are light o' tongue, an' they're apt ter think that
ev'ry maounting girl is a fool ef she don't have book learnin'.Some
city chaps make their boast how easy they kin'mash' such gals.Anything
like that would count agin' you-uns."Frank was holding himself in check with an effort."It is plain you do not know us, and you have greatly misjudged us.We
are not in the mountains to make'mashes,' and we are not the kind to
boast of our conquests.""Thot's right, me jool!"growled Barney, whose temper was started a bit."An' it's mesilf thot loikes to be suspected av such a thing.It shtirs
me foighting blud."The Irish lad clinched his fist, and felt of his muscle, moving his
forearm up and down, and scowling blackly at the cool chief of
moonshiners, as if longing to thump the fellow.This seemed to amuse Muriel, but still he persisted in further arousing
the lads by saying, insinuatingly:

"I war led ter b'lieve that Kate war ruther interested in you-uns by her
manner.Thar don't no maounting gal take so much trouble over strangers
fer nothin'!"Frank bit his lip, and Barney looked blacker than ever.It seemed that
Muriel was trying to draw them into a trap of some sort, and they were
growing suspicious.Had this young leader of mountain ruffians rescued
them that he might find just cause or good excuse to put them out of the
way?The boys were silent, and Muriel forced a laugh."Wal, ye won't talk about that, an' so we'll go onter somethin' else.I
judge you-uns know yo're in a po'erful bad scrape?"exclaimed Barney, feeling of his neck, and
making a wry face, as if troubled by an unpleasant recollection."It is a scrape that you-uns may not be able ter git out of easy,"
Muriel said."I war able ter save yer from bein' hung 'thout any show at
all, but ye're not much better off now.""If you were powerful enough to save us in the first place, you should
be able to get us out of the scrape entirely.""You-uns don't know all about it.Moonshiners have laws an' regulations,
an' even ther leader must stan' by them."Frank was still troubled by the unpleasant suspicion that Muriel was
their enemy, after all that had happened.He felt that they must guard
their tongues, for there was no telling what expression the fellow might
distort and turn against them.Seeing neither of the lads was going to speak, Muriel went on:

"Yes, moonshiners have laws and regulations.Ther boys came nigh
breakin' one o' ther laws by hangin' you-uns ter-night 'thout givin' ye
a show.""Then we are to have a fair deal?""Ez fair ez anybody gits," assured Muriel, tossing back a lock of his
coal-black hair, which he wore long enough to fall to the collar of his
coat."Ain't that all ye kin ask?"That depends on what kind of a deal it is.""Wall, ye'll be given yore choice."If it is proven that we are revenue spies,
we'll have to take our medicine.But if it is not proven, we demand
immediate release.""Take my advice; don't demand anything o' ther Black Caps.Ther more ye
demand, ther less ye git.""We have a right to demand a fair deal.""Right don't count in this case; it is might that holds ther fort.You-uns stirred up a tiger ag'in' ye when you made Wade Miller mad.It's
a slim show that ye escape ef we-uns lets yer go instanter.He'd foller
yer, an' he'd finish yer somewhar."We have taken care of ourselves so
far, and we think we can continue to do so.All we ask is that we be set
at liberty and given our weapons.""An' ye'd be found with yer throats cut within ten miles o' hyar.""Wal, 'cordin' to our rules, ye can't be released onless ther vote ur
ther card sez so.""Wal, it's like this: Ef it's put ter vote, one black bean condemns
you-uns ter death, an' ev'ry man votes black ur white, as he chooses.I
don't judge you-uns care ter take yer chances that way?""Oi sh'u'd soay not!Ixchuse us from thot, me hearty!""There would be one
vote against us--one black bean thrown, at least.""Pwhat av th' carruds?""Two men will be chosen, one ter hold a pack o' cards, and one to draw a
card from them.Ef ther card is red, it lets you-uns off, fer it means
life; ef it is black, it cooks yer, fer it means death."The boys were silent, dumfounded, appalled.Muriel stood watching them, and Frank fancied that his eyes were
gleaming with satisfaction.The boy began to believe he had mistaken the
character of this astonishing youth; Muriel might be even worse than his
older companions, for he might be one who delighted in torturing his
victims.Frank threw back his head, defiance and scorn written on his handsome
face."It is a clean case of murder, at best!"he cried, his voice ringing out
clearly."We deserve a fair trial--we demand it!""Wal," drawled the boy moonshiner, "I warned you-uns that ther more yer
demanded, ther less yer got."We're in fur it, Frankie, me b'y!""If we had our revolvers, we'd give them a stiff fight for it!""They would not murder us till a few of them had eaten
lead!""You-uns has stuff, an' when I tell yer that ye'll have ter sta' ter
vote ur take chances with ther cards, I don't judge you'll hesitate."Then, make it the cards," said Frank, hoarsely."That will give us an
even show, if the draw is a fair one.""I'll see ter that," assured Muriel.Without another word, he turned and swiftly slipped out of the room.They heard him bar the door, and then they stood looking into each
other's faces, speechless for a few moments."It's a toss-up, Barney," Frank finally observed."Thot's pwhat it is, an' th' woay our luck is runnin' Oi think it's a
case av heads they win an' tails we lose.""But there is no way out of it."Pwhat do yez think av thot Muriel?""Worse than thot, me b'y--he's a cat's cradle toied in a hundred an'
sivintane knots.""It is impossible to tell whether he is friendly or whether he is the
worst foe we have in these mountains.""Oi wonder how Kate Kenyon knew where to foind him so quick?"She must have found him in a very short time
after we were taken from the cabin.""An' she diskivered thot we hed been taken away moighty soon afther we
wur gone, me b'y.It may have aroused Kate and her
mother, and caused them to investigate.""Loikely thot wur th' case, fer it's not mesilf thot would think she'd
kape shtill an' let ther spalpanes drag us away av she knew it.""No; I believe her utterly fearless, and it is plain that Wade Miller is
not the only one in love with her.""Mebbe ye're roight, Frankie."The fellow tried to lead me into a trap--tried
to get me to boast of a mash on her.I could see his eyes gleam with
jealousy.In her eagerness to save us--to have him aid her in the
work--she must have led him to suspect that one of us had been making
love to her."Barney whistled a bit, and then he shyly said:

"Oi wunder av wan of us didn't do a bit av thot?""We talked in a friendly manner--in fact, she
promised to be a friend to me.I may have expressed admiration for her
hair, or something of the sort, but I vow I did not make love to her.""Well, me b'y, ye have a thrick av gettin' all th' girruls shtuck on yez
av ye look at thim, so ye didn't nade ter make love.""It's nivver a fault at all, at all, me lad.Oi wish Oi wur built th'
soame woay, but it's litthle oice I cut wid th' girruls.This south av
Oireland brogue thot Oi foind mesilf unable to shake counts against me a
bit, Oi belave.""I should think Miller and Muriel would clash.""It's plain enough that Miller is afraid av Muriel.""And Muriel intends to keep him thus.I fancy it was a good thing for us
that Kate Kenyon suspected Wade Miller of having a hand in our capture,
and told Muriel that we had been carried off by him, for I fancy that is
exactly what happened.Muriel was angry with Miller, and he seized the
opportunity to call the fellow down.But for that, he might not have
made such a hustle to save us.""Thin we should be thankful thot Muriel an' Miller do not love ache
ither."The boys continued to discuss the situation for some time, and then they
fell to examining the room in which they were imprisoned.It did not
seem to have a window anywhere, and the single door appeared to be the
only means of entering or leaving the place."There's little show of escaping from this room," said Frank."This wur built to kape iverything safe
thot came in here."A few minutes later there was a sound at the door, and Muriel came in,
with two of the Black Caps at his heels."Ther boys have agreed ter give ye ther chance o' ther cards," said the
boy moonshiner."An' yo're goin' ter have a fair an' squar' deal.""We will have to submit," said Frank, quietly."You will have ter let ther boys bind yer hands afore ye leave this
room," said Muriel.The men each held the end of a stout rope, and the boys were forced to
submit to the inconvenience of having their hands bound behind them.Barney protested, but Frank kept silent, knowing it was useless to say
anything.When their hands were tied, Muriel said:

"Follow."He led the way, while Frank came next, with Barney shuffling sulkily
along at his heels.They passed through a dark room and entered another room, which was
lighted by three oil lamps.The room was well filled with the
black-hooded moonshiners, who were standing in a grim and silent
circle, with their backs against the walls.Into the center of this circle, the boys were marched.The door closed,
and Muriel addressed the Black Caps."It is not often that we-uns gives our captives ther choice uv ther
cards or ther vote, but we have agreed ter do so in this case, with only
one objectin', an' he war induced ter change his mind.Now we mean ter
have this fair an' squar', an' I call on ev'ry man present ter watch out
an' see that it is.Ther men has been serlected, one ter hold ther cards
an' one ter draw.Two of the Black Caps stepped out, and Frank started a bit, for he
believed one of them was Wade Miller.A pack of cards was produced, and Muriel shuffled them with a skill that
told of experience, after which he handed them to one of the men.Frank watched every move, determined to detect the fraud if possible,
should there be any fraud.An awed hush seemed to settle over the room.The men who wore the black hoods leaned forward a little, every one of
them watching to see what card should be drawn from the pack.Barney Mulloy caught his breath with a gasping sound, and then was
silent, standing stiff and straight.Muriel was as alert as a panther, and his eyes gleamed through the holes
in his mask like twin stars.The man who received the pack from Muriel stepped forward, and Miller
reached out his hand to draw.Then Frank suddenly cried:

"Wait!That we may be satisfied we are having a fair show in this
matter, why not permit one of us to shuffle those cards?"Quick as a flash of light, Muriel's hand fell on the wrist of the man
who held the cards, and his clear voice rang out:

"Stop!Frank's hands were unbound, and he was given the cards.He shuffled
them, but he did not handle them with more skill than had Muriel.He
"shook them up" thoroughly, and then passed them back to the man who
was to hold them.Muriel's order was swiftly obeyed, and Frank was again helpless.Wade Miller reached out, and quickly made the
draw, holding the fateful card up for all to see.From beneath the black hoods sounded the terrible word, as the man
beheld the black card which was exposed to view.Frank's heart dropped like a stone into the depths of his bosom, but no
sound came from his lips.Barney Mulloy showed an equal amount of nerve.Indeed, the Irish lad
laughed recklessly as he cried:

"It's nivver a show we had at all, at all, Frankie.Th' snakes had it
fixed fer us all th' toime."The words came from Muriel, and the boy chief of the moonshiners made a
spring and a grab, snatching the card from Miller's hand.Let's give ther critters a fair
show.""Do you mean ter say they didn't have a fair show?""Not knowin' it," answered Muriel."But ther draw warn't fair, jes' ther
same."One is ther ace o' spades, an' ther other is ther
nine o' hearts."Exclamations of astonishment came from all sides, and a ray of hope shot
into Frank Merriwell's heart.Ther black card war ther one exposed, an' that settles what'll be
done with ther spies.""Them boys is goin' ter
have a squar' show."It was with the greatest difficulty that Miller held himself in check.His hands were clinched, and Frank fancied that he longed to spring upon
Muriel.The boy chief was very cool as he took the pack of cards from the hand
of the man who had held them."Release one of the prisoners," was his command."The cards shall be
shuffled again."Once more Frank's hands were freed, and again the cards were given him
to shuffle.He mixed them deftly, without saying a word, and gave them
back to Muriel.Then his hands were tied, and he awaited the second
drawing."Be careful an' not get two cards this time," warned Muriel as he faced
Miller."This draw settles ther business fer them-uns."The cards were given to the man who was to hold them, and Miller stepped
forward to draw.Again the suspense became great, again the men leaned forward to see the
card that should be pulled from the pack; again the hearts of the
captives stood still.He seemed to feel that the tide had turned against
him.For a moment he was tempted to refuse to draw, and then, with a
muttered exclamation, he pulled a card from the pack and held it up to
view.Then, with a bitter cry of baffled rage, he flung it madly to the
floor.Each man in the room seemed to draw a deep breath.It was plain that
some were disappointed, and some were well satisfied."They-uns won't be put out o'
ther way ter-night.""An' I claim that it don't," returned the youthful moonshiner, without
lifting his voice in the least."You-uns all agreed ter ther second
draw, an' that lets them off.""But
them critters ain't out o' ther maountings yit!""By that yer mean--jes' what?""They're not liable ter git out alive.""Ef they-uns is killed, I'll know whar ter look fer ther one as war at
ther bottom o' ther job--an' I'll look!"Muriel did not bluster, and he did not speak above an ordinary tone, but
it was plain that he meant every word."Wal," muttered Miller, "what do ye mean ter do with them critters--turn
'em out, an' let 'em bring ther officers down on us?"I'm goin' ter keep 'em till they kin be escorted out o' ther
maountings.Thar ain't time ter-night, fer it's gittin' toward mornin'.Ter-morrer night it can be done."He seemed to know it was useless to make further
talk, but Frank and Barney knew that they were not yet out of danger.The boys seemed as cool as any one in the room, for all of the deadly
peril they had passed through, and Muriel nodded in a satisfied way when
he had looked them over."Come," he said, in a low tone, "you-uns will have ter go back ter ther
room whar ye war a bit ago."They were willing to go back, and it was with no small amount of relief
that they allowed themselves to be escorted to the apartment.Muriel dismissed the two guards, and then he set the hands of the boys
free."Suspecting you of double-dealing."It seemed that you had saved us from being
hanged, but that you intended to finish us here.""Ef that war my scheme, why did I take ther trouble ter save ye at all?""It looked as if you did so to please Miss Kenyon.You had saved us, and
then, if the men disposed of us in the regular manner, you would not be
to blame."Muriel shook back his long, black hair, and his manner showed that he
was angry.He did not feel at all pleased to know his sincerity had been
doubted."Wal," he said, slowly, "ef it hadn't been fer me you-uns would be gone
<DW53>s now.""You-uns know I saved ye, but ye don't know how I done it."There was something of bitterness and reproach in the voice of the
youthful moonshiner.He continued:

"I done that fer you I never done before fer no man.I wouldn't a done
it fer myself!""Do you-uns want ter know what I done?""When I snatched ther first card drawn from ther hand o' ther man what
drawed it.It war ther ace o' spades, an' it condemned yer ter die."Thar war one card drawed, an' that war all!""That war whar I cheated," he said, simply."I had ther red card in my
hand ready ter do ther trick ef a black card war drawed.In that way I
knowed I could give yer two shows ter escape death."The boys were astounded by this revelation, but they did not doubt that
Muriel spoke the truth.His manner showed that he was not telling a
falsehood.And this strange boy--this remarkable leader of moonshiners--had done
such a thing to save them!More than ever, they marveled at the fellow.Once more Muriel's arms were folded over his breast, and he was leaning
gracefully against the door, his eyes watching their faces.For several moments both boys were stricken dumb with wonder and
surprise.Frank was not a little confused, thinking as he did how he had
misunderstood this mysterious youth.It seemed most unaccountable that he should do such a thing for two
lads who were utter strangers to him.A sound like a bitter laugh came from behind the sable mask, and Muriel
flung out one hand, with an impatient gesture."I know what you-uns is thinkin' of," declared the young moonshiner."Ye
wonder why I done so.Wal, I don't jes' know myself, but I promised Kate
ter do my best fer ye."cried Frank, "kept it nobly!Muriel, you
may be a moonshiner, you may be the leader of the Black Caps, but I am
proud to know you!I believe you are white all the way through!"exclaimed the youth, with a show of satisfaction, "that makes me
feel better.But it war Kate as done it, an' she's ther one ter thank;
but it ain't likely you-uns'll ever see her ag'in.""Then, tell her," said Frank, swiftly, "tell her for us that we are very
thankful--tell her we shall not forget her.He seemed about to speak, and then checked
himself."I'll tell her," nodded Muriel, his voice sounding a bit strange."Is
that all you-uns want me ter tell her?""Tell her I would give much to see her again," came swiftly from Frank's
lips."She's promised to be my friend, and right well has she kept that
promise.""Then I'll have ter leave you-uns now.Breakfast will be brought ter ye, and when another night comes, a guard
will go with yer out o' ther maountings.He held out a hand, and Muriel seemed to hesitate.After a few moments,
the masked lad shook his head, and, without another word, left the room.cried Barney, scratching his head, "thot felly is worse than
Oi thought!Oi don't know so much about him now as Oi did bafore Oi met
him at all, at all!"They made themselves as
comfortable as possible, and talked over the thrilling events of the
night."If Kate Kenyon had not told me that her brother was serving time as a
convict, I should think this Muriel must be her brother," said Frank."Av he's not her brither, it's badly shtuck on her he must be, Oi
dunno," observed Barney."An' av he be shtuck on her, pwhoy don't he git
onter th' collar av thot Miller?"Finally, when they had tired
of talking, the boys lay down and tried to sleep.Frank was beginning to doze when his ears seemed to detect a slight
rustling in that very room, and his eyes flew open in a twinkling.He
started up, a cry of wonder surging to his lips, and being smothered
there.Kate Kenyon stood within ten feet of him!As Frank started up, the girl swiftly placed a finger on her lips,
warning him to be silent.Frank sprang to his feet, and Barney Mulloy sat up, rubbing his eyes and
beginning to speak."Pwhat's th' matter now, me b'y?Are yez---- Howly shmoke!"Barney clasped both hands over his mouth, having caught the warning
gestures from Frank and the girl.Still the exclamation had escaped his
lips, although it was not uttered loudly.Swiftly Kate Kenyon flitted across the room, listening with her ear to
the door to hear any sound beyond.After some moments, she seemed
satisfied that the moonshiners had not been aroused by anything that had
happened within that room, and she came back, standing close to Frank,
and whispering:

"Ef you-uns will trust me, I judge I kin git yer out o' this scrape."exclaimed Frank, softly, as he caught her hand."We have
you to thank for our lives!Kate--your pardon!--Miss Kenyon, how can we
ever repay you?""Don't stop ter talk 'bout that now," she said, with chilling
roughness."Ef you-uns want ter live, an' yer want ter git erway frum
Wade Miller, git reddy ter foller me.""But how are we to leave this room?She silently pointed to a dark opening in the corner, and they saw that
a small trapdoor was standing open."We kin git out that way," she said.The boys wondered why they had not discovered the door when they
examined the place, but there was no time for investigation.Kate Kenyon flitted lightly toward the opening.Pausing beside it, she
pointed downward, saying:

"Go ahead; I'll foller and close ther door."The boys did not hesitate, for they placed perfect confidence in the
girl now.Barney dropped down in advance, and his feet found some rude
stone steps.In a moment he had disappeared, and then Frank followed.As lightly as a fairy, Kate Kenyon dropped through the opening, closing
the door behind her.The boys found themselves in absolute darkness, in some sort of a
narrow, underground place, and there they paused, awaiting their guide.Her hand touched Frank as she slipped past, and he
caught the perfume of wild flowers.To him she was like a beautiful wild
flower growing in a wilderness of weeds.The boys heard the word, and they moved slowly forward through the
darkness, now and then feeling dank walls on either hand.For a considerable distance they went on in this way, and then the
passage seemed to widen out, and they felt that they had entered a cave."Keep close ter me," directed the girl.Now you-uns can't git astray."At last a strange smell came to their nostrils, seemingly on the wings
of a light breath of air."Ther mill whar ther moonshine is made."Never for a moment did she
hesitate; she seemed to have the eyes of an owl.All at once they heard the sound of gently running water."Lost Creek runs through har," answered the girl.So the mysterious stream flowed through this cavern, and the cave was
near one of the illicit distilleries.Frank cared to know no more, for he did not believe it was healthy to
know too much about the makers of moonshine.It was not long before they approached the mouth of the cave.They saw
the opening before them, and then, of a sudden, a dark figure arose
there--the figure of a man with a gun in his hands!FRANK'S SUSPICION.Kate uttered the words, and the boys began to recover from their alarm,
as she did not hesitate in the least.I put him thar ter watch
out while I war in hyar."Of a sudden, Kate struck a match, holding it so the
light shone on her face, and the figure at the mouth of the cave was
seen to wave its hand and vanish."Ther coast is clear," assured the girl."But it's gittin' right nigh
mornin', an' we-uns must hustle away from hyar afore it is light.The boys were well satisfied to get away as quickly as possible.They passed out of the dark cavern into the cool, sweet air of a spring
morning, for the gray of dawn was beginning to dispel the darkness, and
the birds were twittering from the thickets.The phantom of a moon was in the sky, hanging low down and half-inverted
as if spilling a spectral glamour over the ghostly mists which lay deep
in Lost Creek Valley.The sweet breath of flowers and of the woods was in the morning air, and
from some cabin afar on the side of a distant mountain a wakeful
watchdog barked till the crags reverberated with his clamoring."Thar's somethin' stirrin' at 'Bize Wiley's, ur his dorg wouldn't be
kickin' up all that racket," observed Kate Kenyon."He lives by ther
road that comes over from Bildow's Crossroads.Folks comin' inter ther
maountings from down below travel that way."The boys looked around for the mute who had been guarding the mouth of
the cave, but they saw nothing of him.He had slipped away into the
bushes which grew thick all around the opening."Come on," said the girl, after seeming strangely interested in the
barking of the dog."We'll git ter ther old mill as soon as we kin.Foller me, an' be ready ter scrouch ther instant anything is seen."Now that they could see her, she led them forward at a swift pace, which
astonished them both.She did not run, but she seemed to skim over the
ground, and she took advantage of every bit of cover till they entered
some deep, lowland pines.Through this strip of woods she swiftly led them, and they came near to
Lost Creek, where it flowed down in the dismal valley.There they found the ruins of an old mill, the moss-covered water-wheel
forever silent, the roof sagging and falling in, the windows broken out
by mischievous boys, the whole presenting a most melancholy and deserted
appearance.The road that had led to the mill from the main highway was overgrown
with weeds.Later it would be filled with thistles and burdocks.Wild
sassafras grew along the roadside."That's whar you-uns must hide ter-day," said Kate, motioning toward the
mill."We are not criminals, nor are we
revenue spies.I do not fancy the idea of hiding like a hunted dog.""It's better ter be a live dorg than a dead lion.Ef you-uns'll take my
advice, you'll come inter ther mill thar, an' ye'll keep thar all day,
an' keep mighty quiet.I know ye're nervy, but thar ain't no good in
bein' foolish.It'll be known that you-uns have escaped, an' then Wade
Miller will scour ther country.Ef he come on yer----"

"Give us our arms, and we'll be ready to meet Mr."But yer wouldn't meet him alone; thar'd be others with him, an' you-uns
wouldn't have no sorter show."Kate finally succeeded in convincing the boys that she spoke the truth,
and they agreed to remain quietly in the old mill.She led them into the mill, which was dank and dismal.The imperfect
light failed to show all the pitfalls that lurked for their feet, but
she warned them, and they escaped injury.The miller had lived in the mill, and the girl took them to the part of
the old building that had served as a home."Har," she said, opening a closet door, "I've brung food fer you-uns, so
yer won't starve, an' I knowed ye'd be hongry.""You are more than thoughtful, Miss Kenyon.""Yer seem ter have fergot what we agreed ter call each other, Frank."She spoke the words in a tone of reproach.Barney turned away, winking uselessly at nothing at all, and kept his
back toward them for some moments.But Frank Merriwell had no thought of making love to this strange girl
of the mountains.She had promised to be his friend; she had proved
herself his friend, and as no more than a friend did he propose to
accept her.That he had awakened something stronger than a friendly feeling in Kate
Kenyon's breast seemed evident, and the girl was so artless that she
could not conceal her true feelings toward him.They stood there, talking in a low tone, while the morning light stole
in at one broken window and grew stronger and stronger within that room.As he did so a new thought
came to him--a thought that was at first a mere suspicion, which he
scarcely noted at all.This suspicion grew, and he found himself asking:

"Kate, are you sure your brother is still wearing a convict's suit?""You do not know that he is dead--you have not heard of his death?"Her eyes flashed, and a look of pride swept across her face."Folks allus 'lowed Rufe Kenyon wa'n't afeard o' ary two-legged critter
livin', an' they war right."She clutched his arm, beginning to pant, as she asked:

"What makes you say that?I knowed he'd try it some day, but--but, have
you heard anything?The suspicion leaped to a conviction in the twinkling of an eye.If Rufe
Kenyon was not at liberty, then he must be right in what he thought."I do not know that your brother has tried to escape.I did think that he might be Muriel, the
moonshiner.""You-uns war plumb mistooken thar," she said, positively."Rufe is not
Muriel.""Then," cried Frank, "you are Muriel yourself!""Have you-uns gone plumb dafty?"asked the girl, in a dazed way."But you are--I am sure of it," said Frank, swiftly.Of course I'm not Muriel; but he's ther best
friend I've got in these maountings."Frank was far from satisfied, but he was too courteous to insist after
this denial.Kate laughed the idea to scorn, saying over and over that
the boy must be "dafty," but still his mind was unchanged.To be sure, there were some things not easily explained, one being how
Muriel concealed her luxurious red hair, for Muriel's hair appeared to
be coal-black.Another thing was that Wade Miller must know Muriel and Kate were one
and the same, and yet he preserved her secret and allowed her to snatch
his victims from his maws.Barney Mulloy had been more than astounded by Frank's words; the Irish
youth was struck dumb.When he could collect himself, he softly
muttered:

"Well, av all th' oideas thot takes th' cake!"Having seen them safely within the mill and shown them the food brought
there, Kate said:

"Har is two revolvers fer you-uns.Don't use 'em unless yer have ter,
but shoot ter kill ef you're forced."Oi'm ready fer th' spalpanes!"cried Barney, as he grasped one
of the weapons."Next time Wade Miller and his
gang will not catch us napping.""Roight, me b'y; we'll be sound awake, Frankie."Kate bade them good-by, assuring them that she would return with the
coming of another night, and making them promise to await her, and then
she flitted away, slipped out of the mill, soon vanishing amid the
pines."It's dead lucky we are ter be living, Frankie," observed Barney."I quite agree with you," laughed Merriwell."This night has been a
black and tempestuous one, but we have lived through it, and I do not
believe we'll find ourselves in such peril again while we are in the
Tennessee mountains."They were hungry, and they ate heartily of the plain food that had been
provided for them.When breakfast was over, Barney said:

"Frankie, it's off yer trolley ye git sometoimes.""What do you mean by that, Barney?Oi wur thinkin' av pwhat yez said about Kate Kenyon being
Mooriel, th' moonshoiner.""I was not off my trolley so very much then.""G'wan, me b'y!"You think so, but I have made a study of Muriel and of Kate Kenyon.I
am still inclined to believe the moonshiner is the girl in disguise.""An' Oi say ye're crazy.No girrul could iver do pwhat thot felly does,
an' no band av min loike th' moonshoiners would iver allow a girrul
loike Kate Kenyon ter boss thim.""They do not know Muriel is a girl.That is, I am sure the most of them
do not know it--do not dream it.""Thot shows their common sinse, fer Oi don't belave it mesilf.""I may be wrong, but I shall not give it up yet.""Whoy, think pwhat a divvil thot Muriel is!An' th' color av his hair is
black, whoile the girrul's is red.""I have thought of those things, and I have wondered how she concealed
that mass of red hair; still I am satisfied she does it.""Well, it's no use to talk to you at all, at all."However, they did discuss it for some time.Finally they fell to exploring the old mill, and they wandered from one
part to another till they finally came to the place where they had
entered over a sagging plank.They were standing there, just within the
deeper shadow of the mill, when a man came panting and reeling from the
woods, his hat off, his shirt torn open at the throat, great drops of
perspiration standing on his face, a wild, hunted look in his eyes, and
dashed to the end of the plank that led over the water into the old
mill.Frank clutched Barney, and the boys fell back a step, watching the man,
who was looking back over his shoulder and listening, the perfect
picture of a hunted thing."They're close arter me--ther dogs!"came in a hoarse pant from the
man's lips."But I turned on 'em--I doubled--an' I hope I fooled 'em.It's my last chance, fer I'm dead played, and I'm so nigh starved that
it's all I kin do ter drag one foot arter t'other."He listened again, and then, as if overcome by a sudden fear of being
seen there, he suddenly rushed across the plank and plunged into the
mill.In the twinkling of an eye man and boy were clasped in a close embrace,
struggling desperately.He tried to hurl Frank to the floor, and he would have succeeded had he
been in his normal condition, for he was a man of great natural
strength; but he was exhausted by flight and hunger, and, in his
weakened condition, the man found his supple antagonist too much for
him.A gasp came from the stranger's lips as he felt the boy give him a
wrestler's trip and fling him heavily to the floor.When he opened his eyes, Frank and
Barney were bending over him."Wal, I done my best," he said, huskily; "but you-uns trapped me at
last.I dunno how yer knew I war comin' har, but ye war on hand ter meet
me.""You have made a mistake," said Frank, in a reassuring tone."We are not
your enemies at all.""We are not your enemies; you are not trapped."The man seemed unable to believe what he heard."Fugitives, like yourself," assured Frank, with a smile.He looked them over, and shook his head.I'm wore ter ther bone--I'm a
wreck!Oh, it's a cursed life I've led sence they dragged me away from
har!Night an' day hev I watched for a chance ter break away, and' I war
quick ter grasp it when it came.They shot at me, an' one o' their
bullets cut my shoulder har.It war a close call, but I got away.Then
they follered, an' they put houn's arter me.Twenty times hev they been
right on me, an' twenty times hev I got erway.But it kep' wearin' me
weaker an' thinner.My last hope war ter find friends ter hide me an'
fight fer me, an' I came har--back home!I tried ter git inter 'Bije
Wileys' this mornin', but his dorg didn't know me, I war so changed, an'
ther hunters war close arter me, so I hed ter run fer it."exclaimed Barney; "we hearrud th' dog barruckin'.""So we did," agreed Frank, remembering how the creature had been
clamoring on the mountainside at daybreak."I kem har," continued the man, weakly."I turned on ther devils, but
when I run in har an' you-uns tackled me, I judged I had struck a trap.""It was no trap, Rufe Kenyon," said Frank, quietly.The hunted man started up and slunk away."An' still ye say you-uns are not my enemies.""No; but we have heard of you.""She saved us from certain death last night, and she brought us here to
hide till she can help us get out of this part of the country.""I judge you-uns is givin' it ter me straight," he said, slowly; "but I
don't jes' understan'."What had moonshiners agin' you-uns?"Well, we are not spies; but we were unfortunate enough to incur the
enmity of Wade Miller, and he has sworn to end our lives."cried Rufe, showing his teeth in an ugly manner."An' I
s'pose he's hangin' 'roun' Kate, same as he uster?""He is giving her more or less trouble.""Wal, he won't give her much trouble arter I git at him.I'm goin' ter tell you-uns somethin'.Miller allus pretended
ter be my friend, but it war that critter as put ther revernues onter me
an' got me arrested!He done it because I tol' him Kate war too good fer
him.I know it, an' one thing why I wanted ter git free war ter come har
an' fix ther critter so he won't ever bother Kate no more.I hev swore
ter fix him, an' I'll do it ef I live ter meet him face ter face!"He had grown wildly excited, and he sat up, with his back against a
post, his eyes gleaming redly, and a white foam flecking his lips.At
that moment he reminded the boys of a mad dog.When Kenyon was calmer, Frank told the story of the adventures which had
befallen the boys since entering Lost Creek Valley.The fugitive
listened quietly, watching them closely with his sunken eyes, and,
having heard all, said:

"I judge you-uns tells ther truth.Ef I kin keep hid till Kate gits
har--till I see her--I'll fix things so you won't be bothered much.Wade
Miller's day in Lost Creek Valley is over."The boys took him up to the living room of the old mill, where they
furnished him with the coarse food that remained from their breakfast.He ate like a famished thing, washing the dry bread down with great
swallows of water.When he had finished and his hunger was satisfied, he
was quite like another man.he cried; "now I am reddy fer anything!"And you'll tell me ef thar's danger?"So the hunted wretch was induced to lie down and sleep.He slept soundly
for some hours, and, when he opened his eyes, his sister had her arms
about his neck.He sat up and clasped her in his arms, a look of joy on his face.It is quite unnecessary to describe the joys of that meeting.The boys
had left brother and sister alone together, and the two remained thus
for nearly an hour, at the end of which time Rufe knew all that had
happened since he was taken from Lost Creek Valley, and Kate had also
been made aware of the perfidy of Wade Miller."I judge it is true that bread throwed on ther waters allus comes back,"
said Kate, when the four were together."Now looker how I helped
you-uns, an' then see how it turned out ter be a right good thing fer
Rufe.He found ye har, an' you-uns hev fed him an' watched while he
slept.""An' I hev tol' Kate all about Wade Miller," said the fugitive."That settles him," declared the girl, with a snap."Kate says ther officers think I hev gone on over inter ther next cove,
an' they're arter me, all 'ceptin' two what have been left behind.They'll be back, though, by night.""But you are all right now, for your friends will be on hand by that
time.""Yes; Kate will take word ter Muriel, an' he'll hev ther boys ready ter
fight fer me.Ther officers will find it kinder hot in these parts.""I'd better be goin' now," said the girl."Ther boys oughter know all
about it soon as possible.""That's right," agreed Rufe."This ain't ther best place fer me ter
hide.""No," declared Kate, suddenly; "an' yer mustn't hide har longer, fer
ther officers may come afore night.It
won't do fer ther boys ter go thar, but you kin all right.Ther boys is
best off har, fer ther officers wouldn't hurt 'em."This seemed all right, and it was decided on.Just as they were on the point of descending, Barney gave a cry, caught
Frank by the arm, and drew him toward a window."Phwat do yez think av it
now?"A horseman was coming down the old road that led to the mill.He
bestrode a coal-black horse, and a mask covered his face, while his
long, black hair flowed down on the collar of the coat he wore.He sat
the horse jauntily, riding with a reckless air that seemed to tell of a
daring spirit."An' it's your trate, me lad.""I will treat," said Frank, crestfallen."I am not nearly so smart as I
thought I was."cried Kate, dashing to the window.She did not hesitate to appear in the window and signal to the dashing
young moonshiner, who returned her salute, and motioned for her to come
out."He wants ter see me in er hurry," said the girl."I sent word ter him
by Dummy that ther boys war har, an' that's how he happened ter turn up.Come, Rufe, go out with me.Muriel will be glad to see yer.""And I shall be glad ter see him," declared the escaped convict.Kate bade the boys remain there, telling them she would call them if
they were wanted, and then, with Rufe following, she hurried down the
stairs, and hastened to meet the boy moonshiner, who had halted on the
bank at some distance from the old mill.Watching from the window, Frank and Barney saw her hasten up to Muriel,
saw her speak swiftly, although they could not hear her words, saw
Muriel nod and seem to reply quite as swiftly, and then saw the young
leader of the Black Caps shake her hand in a manner that denoted
pleasure and affection."Ye're a daisy, Frankie, me b'y," snickered Barney Mulloy; "but fer
wance ye wur badly mishtaken.""I was all of that," confessed Frank, as if slightly ashamed."I thought
myself far shrewder than I am."As they watched, they saw Rufe Kenyon suddenly leap up behind Muriel,
and then the doubly burdened horse swung around and went away at a hot
pace, while Kate came flitting back into the mill."The officers are returnin'," she explained."Muriel will take Rufe whar
thar ain't no chance o' their findin' him.You-uns will have ter stay
har.I have brung ye more fodder, an' I judge you'll git along all
right."So she left them hurriedly, being greatly excited over the return of her
brother and his danger.The day passed, and the officers failed to appear in the vicinity of the
mill, although the boys were expecting to see them.When night came Frank and Barney grew impatient, for they were far from
pleased with their lot, but they could do nothing but wait.Two hours after nightfall a form suddenly appeared in the old mill,
rising before the boys like a phantom, although they could not
understand how the fellow came there.In a flash Frank snatched out a revolver and pointed it at the intruder,
crying, sternly:

"Stand still and give an account of yourself!Who are you, and what do
you want?"The figure moved into the range of the window, so that the boys could
see him making strange gestures, pointing to his ears, and pressing his
fingers to his lips."If you don't keep still, I shall shoot.Still the intruder continued to make those strange gestures, pointing to
his ears, and touching his lips.That he saw Frank's revolver glittering
and feared the boy would shoot was evident, but he still remained
silent."Whoy don't th' spalpane spake?""Is it no tongue he has,
Oi dunno?""Perhaps he cannot speak, in which case he is the one Kate calls Dummy.It happened that the sign language of mutes was one of Frank's
accomplishments, he having taken it up during his leisure moments.He
passed the revolver to Barney, saying:

"Keep the fellow covered, while I see if I can talk with him."Frank moved up to the window, held his hands close to the intruder's
face, and spelled:

"You from Kate?"He put up his hands and spelled back:

"Kate send me.Frank interpreted for Barney's benefit, and the Irish lad cried:

"Thin let's be movin'!It's mesilf that's ready ter git out av thase
parruts in a hurry, Oi think."For a moment Frank hesitated about trusting the mute, and then he
decided that it was the best thing to do, and he signaled that they were
ready.Dummy led the way from the mill, crossing by the plank, and plunging
into the pine woods."He sames to be takin' us back th' woay we came, Frankie," said the
Irish lad, in a low tone."He said the horses were waiting for
us.The mute flitted along with surprising silence and speed, and they found
it no easy task to follow and keep close enough to see him.Now and then
he looked back to make sure they were close behind.At last they came to the termination of the pines, and there, in the
deep shadows, they found three horses waiting.Frank felt disappointed, for he wished to see the girl before leaving
the mountains forever.He did not like to go away without touching her
hand again, and expressing his sense of gratitude for the last time.It was his hope that she might join them before they left the mountains.The horses were saddled and bridled, and the boys were about to mount
when a strange, low cry broke from Dummy's lips.There was a sudden stir, and an uprising of dark forms on all sides.Frank tried to snatch out his revolver, but it was too late.He was
seized, disarmed, and crushed to the earth."Did you-uns think ye war goin'
ter escape?Wal, yer didn't know Wade Miller very well.I knowed Kate'd
try ter git yer off, an' all I hed ter do war watch her.I didn't waste
my time runnin' round elsewhar."They were once more in Miller's clutches!He blamed himself for falling
into the trap, and still he could not see how he was to blame.Surely he
had been cautious, but fate was against him.He had escaped Miller
twice; but this was the third time, and he feared that it would prove
disastrous.The hands of the captured boys were tied behind their backs, and then
they were forced to march swiftly along in the midst of the Black Caps
that surrounded them.They were not taken to the cave, but straight to one of the hidden
stills, a little hut that was built against what seemed to be a wall of
solid rock, a great bluff rising against the face of the mountain.Thick
trees concealed the little hut down in the hollow.Some crude candles were lighted, and they saw around them the outfit for
making moonshine whiskey.cried Miller, triumphantly; "you-uns will never go out o' this
place.Ther revernues spotted this still ter-day, but it won't be har
ter-morrer."He made a signal, and the boys were thrown to the floor, where they were
held helpless, while their feet were bound.When this job was finished Miller added:

"No, ther revernues won't find this still ter-morrer, fer it will go up
in smoke.Moonshine is good stuff ter burn, an' we'll see how you-uns
like it."At a word a keg of whiskey was brought to the spot by two men."Let 'em try ther stuff," directed Miller.he's goin' ter fill us up bafore he finishes us!"But that was not the intention of the revengeful man.A plug was knocked from a hole in the end of the keg, and then the
whiskey was poured over the clothing of the boys, wetting them to the
skin.The men did not stop pouring till the clothing of the boys was
thoroughly saturated.said Miller, with a fiendish chuckle, "I reckon you-uns is ready
fer touchin' off, an' ye'll burn like pine knots.Ther way ye'll holler
will make ye heard clean ter ther top o' Black Maounting, an' ther fire
will be seen; but when anybody gits har, you-uns an' this still will be
ashes."He knelt beside Frank, lighted a match, and applied it to the boy's
whiskey-soaked clothing!The flame almost touched Frank's clothing when the boy rolled
over swiftly, thus getting out of the way for the moment.At the same instant the blast of a bugle was heard at the very front of
the hut, and the door fell with a crash, while men poured in by the
opening.rang out a clear voice; "but Muriel!"The boy chief of the Black Caps was there."An' Muriel is not erlone!""Rufe Kenyon is
har!"Out in front of Muriel leaped the escaped criminal, confronting the man
who had betrayed him.Miller staggered, his face turning pale as if struck a heavy blow, and a
bitter exclamation of fury came through his clinched teeth.roared Kate Kenyon's brother, as a long-bladed knife
glittered in his hand, and he thrust back the sleeve of his shirt till
his arm was bared above the elbow."I swore ter finish yer, Miller; but
I'll give ye a squar' show!Draw yer knife, an' may ther best man win!"With the snarl that might have come from the throat of a savage beast,
Miller snatched out a revolver instead of drawing a knife.he screamed; "but I'll shoot ye plumb through ther
heart!"He fired, and Rufe Kenyon ducked at the same time.There was a scream of pain, and Muriel flung up both hands, dropping
into the arms of the man behind.Rufe Kenyon had dodged the bullet, but the boy chief of the Black Caps
had suffered in his stead.Miller seemed dazed by the result of his shot.The revolver fell from
his hand, and he staggered forward, groaning:

"Kate!--I've killed her!"Rufe Kenyon forgot his foe, dropping on one knee beside the prostrate
figure of Muriel, and swiftly removing the mask.panted her brother, "be ye dead?Her eyes opened, and she faintly said:

"Not dead yit, Rufe."Then the brother shouted:

"Ketch Wade Miller!It seemed that every man in the hut leaped to obey.Miller struggled like a tiger, but he was overpowered and dragged out of
the hut, while Rufe still knelt and examined his sister's wound, which
was in her shoulder.Frank and Barney were freed, and they hastened to render such assistance
as they could in dressing the wound and stanching the flow of blood."You-uns don't think that'll be fatal, do yer?"asked Rufe, with
breathless anxiety."There is no reason why it should," assured Frank."She must be taken
home as soon as possible, and a doctor called.I think she will come
through all right, for all of Miller's bullet."The men were trooping back into the hut.roared Rufe, leaping to his feet."He is out har under a tree," answered one of the men, quietly."Who's watchin' him ter see that he don't git erway?"Why, ther p'izen dog will run fer it!""I don't think he'll run fur."Wal, ter make sure he wouldn't run, we hitched a rope around his neck
an' tied it up ter ther limb o' ther tree.Unless ther rope stretches,
he won't be able ter git his feet down onter ther ground by erbout
eighteen inches."muttered Rufe, with a sad shake of his head."I wanted ter
squar 'counts with ther skunk."Kate Kenyon was taken home, and the bullet was extracted from her
shoulder.The wound, although painful, did not prove at all serious, and
she began to recover in a short time.Frank and Barney lingered until it seemed certain that she would
recover, and then they prepared to take their departure.After all, Frank's suspicion had proved true, and it had been revealed
that Muriel was Kate in disguise.Frank chaffed Barney a great deal about it, and the Irish lad took the
chaffing in a good-natured manner.Rufe Kenyon was hidden by his friends, so that his pursuers were forced
to give over the search for him and depart.One still was raided, but not one of the moonshiners was captured, as
they had received ample warning of their danger.On the evening before Frank and Barney were to depart in the morning,
the boys carried Kate out to the door in an easy-chair, and they sat
down near her.Kenyon sat on the steps and smoked her black pipe, looking as
stolid and indifferent as ever."Kate," said Frank, "when did you have your hair cut short?Where is
that profusion of beautiful hair you wore when we first saw you?""Why, my har war cut more'n a year ago.I had it
made inter a'switch,' and I wore it so nobody'd know I had it cut.""You did that in order that you might wear the black wig when you
personated Muriel?""You could do that easily over your short hair.""Well, you played the part well, and you made a dashing boy.But how
about the Muriel who appeared while you were in the mill with us?""You-uns war so sharp that I judged I'd make yer think ye didn't know
so much ez you thought, an' I fixed it up ter have another person show
up in my place."He is no bigger than I, an' he is a good mimic."It's mesilf thot wur chated, an'
thot's not aisy.""You are a shrewd little girl," declared Frank; "and you are dead lucky
to escape with your life after getting Miller's bullet.But Miller won't
trouble you more."Kenyon rose and went into the hut, while Barney lazily strolled
down to the creek, leaving Frank and Kate alone.Half an hour later, as he was coming back, the Irish lad heard Kate
saying:

"I know I'm igerent, an' I'm not fitten fer any educated man.Still, you
an' I is friends, Frank, an' friends we'll allus be.""Friends we will always be," said Frank, softly.It was not long before our friends left the locality, this time bound
for Oklahoma, Utah and California.What Frank's adventures were in those
places will be told in another volume, entitled, "Frank Merriwell's
Bravery.""We are well out of that," said Frank, as they journeyed away."To tell the whole thruth,
me b'y, ye're nivver wrong, nivver!"He died the summer following, at
Vienna, and left her quite a little property near Amiens.He was a good
old Baron, a charitable old fellow among the needy, and a good bohemian
besides; and he did much for Pochard, but he could not keep him sober!"[Illustration: BOUGUEREAU AT WORK]

"After the old man's death," my friend continued, "Pochard drifted from
bad to worse, and finally out of the Quarter, somewhere into misery on
the other side of the Seine.No one heard of him for a few years, until
he was again recognized as being the same Pochard returned again to the
Quarter.He was hobbling about on crutches just as you see him there.And now, do you know what he does?Get up from where you are sitting,"
said Lachaume, "and look into the back kitchen.Is he not standing there
by the door--they are handing him a small bundle?""Yes," said I, "something wrapped in newspaper.""Do you know what is in it?--the carcass of the chicken you have just
finished, and which the garcon carried away.Pochard saw you eating it
half an hour ago as he passed."No, to sell," Lachaume replied, "together with the other bones he is
able to collect--for soup in some poorest resort down by the river,
where the boatmen and the gamins go.The few sous he gets will buy
Pochard a big glass, a lump of sugar, and a spoon; into the goblet, in
some equally dirty 'boite,' they will pour him out his green treasure of
absinthe.Then Pochard will forget the day--perhaps he will dream of the
Austrian Baron--and try and forget Camille Leroux.[Illustration: GEROME]

Marguerite Girardet, the model, also told me between poses in the studio
the other day of just such a "pauvre homme" she once knew."When he was
young," she said, "he won a second prize at the Conservatoire, and
afterward played first violin at the Comique.Now he plays in front of
the cafes, like the rest, and sometimes poses for the head of an old
man![Illustration: A. MICHELENA]

"Many grow old so young," she continued; "I knew a little model once
with a beautiful figure, absolutely comme un bijou--pretty, too, and
had she been a sensible girl, as I often told her, she could still have
earned her ten francs a day posing; but she wanted to dine all the time
with this and that one, and pose too, and in three months all her fine
'svelte' lines that made her a valuable model among the sculptors were
gone.You see, I have posed all my life in the studios, and I am over
thirty now, and you know I work hard, but I have kept my fine
lines--because I go to bed early and eat and drink little.Then I have
much to do at home; my husband and I for years have had a comfortable
home; we take a great deal of pride in it, and it keeps me very busy to
keep everything in order, for I pose very early some mornings and then
go back and get dejeuner, and then back to pose again.[Illustration: A SCULPTOR'S STUDIO]

"In the summer," she went on, "we take a little place outside of Paris
for a month, down the Seine, where my husband brings his work with him;
he is a repairer of fans and objets d'art.You should come in and see us
some time; it is quite near where you painted last summer.Ah yes," she
exclaimed, as she drew her pink toes under her, "I love the country!Last year I posed nearly two months for Monsieur Z., the painter--en
plein air; my skin was not as white as it is now, I can tell you--I was
absolutely like an Indian![Illustration: FREMIET]

"Once"--and Marguerite smiled at the memory of it--"I went to England to
pose for a painter well known there.It was an important tableau, and I
stayed there six months.It was a horrible place to me--I was always
cold--the fog was so thick one could hardly see in winter mornings going
to the studio.Besides, I could get nothing good to eat!He was a
celebrated painter, a 'Sir,' and lived with his family in a big stone
house with a garden.We had tea and cakes at five in the studio--always
tea, tea, tea!--I can tell you I used to long for a good bottle of
Madame Giraud's vin ordinaire, and a poulet.So I left and came back to
Paris.J'etais toujours, toujours
triste la!In Paris I make a good living; ten francs a day--that's not
bad, is it?and my time is taken often a year ahead.I like to pose for
the painters--the studios are cleaner than those of the sculptor's.Some
of the sculptors' studios are so dirty--clay and dust over everything!Did you see Fabien's studio the other day when I posed for him?Tiens!--you should have seen it last year when he was
working on the big group for the Exposition!It is clean now compared
with what it was.You see, I go to my work in the plainest of clothes--a
cheap print dress and everything of the simplest I can make, for in half
an hour, left in those studios, they would be fit only for the
blanchisseuse--the wax and dust are in and over everything!There is
no time to change when one has not the time to go home at mid-day."[Illustration: JEAN PAUL LAURENS]

And so I learned much of the good sense and many of the economies in the
life of this most celebrated model.You can see her superb figure
wrought in marble and bronze by some of the most famous of modern French
sculptors all over Paris.There is another type of model you will see, too--one who rang my bell
one sunny morning in response to a note written by my good friend, the
sculptor, for whom this little Parisienne posed.She came without her hat--this "vrai type"--about seventeen years of
age--with exquisite features, her blue eyes shining under a wealth of
delicate blonde hair arranged in the prettiest of fashions--a little
white bow tied jauntily at her throat, and her exquisitely delicate,
strong young figure clothed in a simple black dress.She had about her
such a frank, childlike air!Yes, she posed for so and so, and so and
so, but not many; she liked it better than being in a shop; and it
was far more independent, for one could go about and see one's
friends--and there were many of her girl friends living on the same
street where this chic demoiselle lived.As she sat buttoning her boots, she
looked up at me innocently, slipped her five francs for the morning's
work in her reticule, and said:

"I live with mama, and mama never gives me any money to spend on myself.This is Sunday and a holiday, so I shall go with Henriette and her
brother to Vincennes.[Illustration: OLD MAN MODEL]

It would have been quite impossible for me to have gone with them--I was
not even invited; but this very serious and good little Parisienne, who
posed for the figure with quite the same unconsciousness as she would
have handed you your change over the counter of some stuffy little shop,
went to Vincennes with Henriette and her brother, where they had a
beautiful day--scrambling up the paths and listening to the band--all at
the enormous expense of the artist; and this was how this good little
Parisienne managed to save five francs in a single day!There are old-men models who knock at your studio too, and who are
celebrated for their tangled gray locks, which they immediately
uncover as you open your door.These unkempt-looking Father Times and
Methuselahs prowl about the staircases of the different ateliers daily.So do little children--mostly Italians and all filthily dirty; swarthy,
black-eyed, gypsy-looking girls and boys of from twelve to fifteen years
of age, and Italian mothers holding small children--itinerant madonnas.These are the poorer class of models--the riff-raff of the Quarter--who
get anywhere from a few sous to a few francs for a seance.And there are four-footed models, too, for I know a kindly old horse who
has served in many a studio and who has carried a score of the famous
generals of the world and Jeanne d'Arcs to battle--in many a modern
public square.CHAPTER VIII

THE LUXEMBOURG GARDENS


In this busy Quarter, where so many people are confined throughout the
day in work-shops and studios, a breathing-space becomes a necessity.The
gardens of the Luxembourg, brilliant in flowers and laid out in the
Renaissance, with shady groves and long avenues of chestnut-trees
stretching up to the Place de l'Observatoire, afford the great
breathing-ground for the Latin Quarter.If one had but an hour to spend in the Quartier Latin, one could not
find a more interesting and representative sight of student life than
between the hours of four and five on Friday afternoon, when the
military band plays in the Luxembourg Gardens.This is the afternoon
when Bohemia is on parade.Then every one flocks here to see one's
friends--and a sort of weekly reception for the Quarter is held.The
walks about the band-stand are thronged with students and girls,
and hundreds of chairs are filled with an audience of the older
people--shopkeepers and their families, old women in white lace caps,
and gray-haired old men, many in straight-brimmed high hats of a mode of
twenty years past.Here they sit and listen to the music under the cool
shadow of the trees, whose rich foliage forms an arbor overhead--a roof
of green leaves, through which the sunbeams stream and in which the fat,
gray pigeons find a paradise.[Illustration: THE CHILDREN'S SHOP--LUXEMBOURG GARDENS]

There is a booth near-by where waffles, cooked on a small oven in the
rear, are sold.In front are a dozen or more tables for ices and
drinkables.Every table and chair is taken within hearing distance of
the band.When these musicians of the army of France arrive, marching in
twos from their barracks to the stand, it is always the signal for that
genuine enthusiasm among the waiting crowd which one sees between the
French and their soldiers.If you chance to sit among the groups at the little tables, and watch
the passing throng in front of you, you will see some queer "types,"
many of them seldom en evidence except on these Friday afternoons in the
Luxembourg.Buried, no doubt, in some garret hermitage or studio, they
emerge thus weekly to greet silently the passing world.A tall poet stalks slowly by, reading intently, as he walks, a well-worn
volume of verses--his faded straw hat shading the tip of his long nose.Following him, a boy of twenty, delicately featured, with that purity of
expression one sees in the faces of the good--the result of a life,
perhaps, given to his ideal in art.He wears his hair long and curling
over his ears, with a long stray wisp over one eye, the whole cropped
evenly at the back as it reaches his black velvet collar.He wears, too,
a dove-gray vest of fine corduroy, buttoned behind like those of the
clergy, and a velvet tam-o'-shanter-like cap, and carries between his
teeth a small pipe with a long goose-quill stem.You can readily see
that to this young man with high ideals there is only one corner of the
world worth living in, and that lies between the Place de l'Observatoire
and the Seine.Three students pass, in wide broadcloth trousers, gathered in tight at
the ankles, and wearing wide-brimmed black hats.Hanging on the arm of
one of the trio is a short snub-nosed girl, whose Cleo-Merodic hair,
flattened in a bandeau over her ears, not only completely conceals them,
but all the rest of her face, except her two merry black eyes and her
saucy and neatly rouged lips.She is in black bicycle bloomers and a
white, short duck jacket--a straw hat with a wide blue ribbon band, and
a fluffy piece of white tulle tied at the side of her neck.It is impossible, in such a close
crowd, to be in a hurry; besides, one never is here.Near-by sit two old ladies, evidently concierges from some atelier
court.One holds the printed program of the music, cut carefully from
her weekly newspaper; it is cheaper than buying one for two sous, and
these old concierges are economical.In this Friday gathering you will recognize dozens of faces which you
have seen at the "Bal Bullier" and the cafes.The girl in the blue tailor-made dress, with the little dog, who you
remember dined the night before at the Pantheon, is walking now arm in
arm with a tall man in black, a mourning band about his hat.The girl is
dressed in black, too--a mark of respect to her ami by her side.The
dog, who is so small that he slides along the walk every time his chain
is pulled, is now tucked under her arm.One of the tables near the waffle stand is taken by a group of six
students and four girls.All of them have arrived at the table in the
last fifteen minutes--some alone, some in twos.The girl in the scarlet
gown and white kid slippers, who came with the queer-looking "type"
with the pointed beard, is Yvonne Gallois--a bonne camarade.She keeps
the rest in the best of spirits, for she is witty, this Yvonne, and a
great favorite with the crowd she is with.Sandra travelled to the hallway.She is pretty, too, and has a
whole-souled good-humor about her that makes her ever welcome.The
fellow she came with is Delmet the architect--a great wag--lazy, but
full of fun--and genius.The little girl sitting opposite Yvonne is Claire Dumont.She is
explaining a very sad "histoire" to the "type" next to her, intense in
the recital of her woes.Her alert, nervous little face is a study; when
words and expression fail, she shrugs her delicate shoulders, accenting
every sentence with her hands, until it seems as if her small, nervous
frame could express no more--and all about her little dog "Loisette!"[Illustration: AT THE HEAD OF THE LUXEMBOURG GARDENS]

"Yes, the villain of a concierge at Edmond's studio swore at him twice,
and Sunday, when Edmond and I were breakfasting late, the old beast saw
'Loisette' on the stairs and threw water over her; she is a sale bete,
that grosse femme!She shall see what it will cost her, the old miser;
and you know I have always been most amiable with her.She is jealous
of me--that is it--oh!Poor
'Loisette'--she shivered all night with fright and from being wet.Edmond and I are going to find another place.Yes, she shall see what it
will be there without us--with no one to depend upon for her snuff and
her wine.If she were concierge at Edmond's old atelier she would be
treated like that horrid old Madame Fouquet."The boys in the atelier over her window hated this old Madame Fouquet, I
remember.She was always prying about and complaining, so they fished up
her pet gold-fish out of the aquarium on her window-sill, and fried them
on the atelier stove, and put them back in the window on a little plate
all garnished with carrots.She swore vengeance and called in the
police, but to no avail.One day they fished up the parrot in its cage,
and the green bird that screamed and squawked continually met a speedy
and painless death and went off to the taxidermist.Then the cage was
lowered in its place with the door left ajar, and the old woman felt
sure that her pet had escaped and would some day find his way back to
her--a thing this garrulous bird would never have thought of doing had
he had any say in the matter.So the old lady left the door of the cage open for days in the event of
his return, and strange to tell, one morning Madame Fouquet got up to
quarrel with her next-door neighbor, and, to her amazement, there was
her green pet on his perch in his cage.She called to him, but he did
not answer; he simply stood on his wired legs and fixed his glassy eyes
on her, and said not a word--while the gang of Indians in the windows
above yelled themselves hoarse.It was just such a crowd as this that initiated a "nouveau" once in one
of the ateliers.They stripped the new-comer, and, as is often the
custom on similar festive occasions, painted him all over with
sketches, done in the powdered water-colors that come in glass jars.They are cheap and cover a lot of surface, so that the gentleman in
question looked like a human picture-gallery.After the ceremony, he was
put in a hamper and deposited, in the morning, in the middle of the Pont
des Arts, where he was subsequently found by the police, who carted him
off in a cab.[Illustration: THE FONTAINE DE MEDICIS]

But you must see more of this vast garden of the Luxembourg to
appreciate truly its beauty and its charm.Filled with beautiful
sculpture in bronze and marble, with its musee of famous modern pictures
bought by the Government, with flower-beds brilliant in geraniums and
fragrant in roses, with the big basin spouting a jet of water in its
center, where the children sail their boats, and with that superb
"Fontaine de Medicis" at the end of a long, rectangular basin of
water--dark as some pool in a forest brook, the green vines trailing
about its sides, shaded by the rich foliage of the trees overhead.On the other side of the Luxembourg you will find a garden of roses,
with a rich bronze group of Greek runners in the center, and near it,
back of the long marble balustrade, a croquet ground--a favorite spot
for several veteran enthusiasts who play here regularly, surrounded for
hours by an interested crowd who applaud and cheer the participants in
this passe sport.This is another way of spending an afternoon at the sole cost of one's
leisure.Often at the Punch and Judy show near-by, you will see two old
gentlemen,--who may have watched this same Punch and Judy show when they
were youngsters,--and who have been sitting for half an hour, waiting
for the curtain of the miniature theater to rise.It is popular--this
small "Theatre Guignol," and the benches in front are filled with the
children of rich and poor, who scream with delight and kick their
little, fat bare legs at the first shrill squeak of Mr.The three
who compose the staff of this tiny attraction have been long in its
service--the old harpist, and the good wife of the showman who knows
every child in the neighborhood, and her husband who is Mr.Punch, the
hangman, and the gendarme, and half a dozen other equally historical
personages.A thin, sad-looking man, this husband, gray-haired, with a
careworn look in his deep-sunken eyes, who works harder hourly, daily,
yearly, to amuse the heart of a child than almost any one I know.The little box of a theater is stifling hot in summer, and yet he must
laugh and scream and sing within it, while his good wife collects the
sous, talking all the while to this and to that child whom she has known
since its babyhood; chatting with the nurses decked out in their
gay-colored, Alsatian bows, the ribbons reaching nearly to the ground.A French nurse is a gorgeous spectacle of neatness and cleanliness, and
many of the younger ones, fresh from country homes in Normandy and
Brittany, with their rosy cheeks, are pictures of health.Wherever you
see a nurse, you will see a "piou-piou" not far away, which is a very
belittling word for the red-trousered infantryman of the Republique
Francaise.Surrounding the Palais du Luxembourg, these "piou-pious," less fortunate
for the hour, stand guard in the small striped sentry-boxes, musket at
side, or pace stolidly up and down the flagged walk.Marie, at the
moment, is no doubt with the children of the rich Count, in a shady spot
near the music.How cruel is the fate of many a gallant "piou-piou"!Farther down the gravel-walk strolls a young Frenchman and his
fiancee--the mother of his betrothed inevitably at her side!It is under
this system of rigid chaperonage that the young girl of France is given
in marriage.It is not to be wondered at that many of them marry to be
free, and that many of the happier marriages have begun with an
elopement![Illustration: THE PALACE OF THE LUXEMBOURG]

The music is over, and the band is filing out, followed by the crowd.A
few linger about the walks around the band-stand to chat.The old lady
who rents the chairs is stacking them up about the tree-trunks, and long
shadows across the walks tell of the approaching twilight.Overhead,
among the leaves, the pigeons coo.For a few moments the sun bathes
the great garden in a pinkish glow, then drops slowly, a blood-red disk,
behind the trees.The air grows chilly; it is again the hour to
dine--the hour when Paris wakes.In the smaller restaurants of the Quarter one often sees some strange
contrasts among these true bohemians, for the Latin Quarter draws its
habitues from every part of the globe.They are not all French--these
happy-go-lucky fellows, who live for the day and let the morrow slide.You will see many Japanese--some of them painters--many of them taking
courses in political economy, or in law; many of them titled men of high
rank in their own country, studying in the schools, and learning, too,
with that thoroughness and rapidity which are ever characteristic of
their race.You will find, too, Brazilians; gentlemen from Haiti of
darker hue; Russians, Poles, and Spaniards--men and women from every
clime and every station in life.They adapt themselves to the Quarter
and become a part of this big family of Bohemia easily and naturally.In this daily atmosphere only the girl-student from our own shores seems
out of place.She will hunt for some small restaurant, sacred in its
exclusiveness and known only to a dozen bon camarades of the Quarter.Perhaps this girl-student, it may be, from the West and her cousin from
the East will discover some such cosy little boite on their way back
from their atelier.To two other equally adventurous female minds they
will impart this newest find; after that you will see the four dining
there nightly together, as safe, I assure you, within these walls of
Bohemia as they would be at home rocking on their Aunt Mary's porch.There is, of course, considerable awkwardness between these bon
camarades, to whom the place really belongs, and these very innocent
new-comers, who seek a table by themselves in a corner under the few
trees in front of the small restaurant.And yet every one is exceedingly
polite to them.Madame the patronne hustles about to see that the dinner
is warm and nicely served; and Henriette, who is waiting on them, none
the less attentive, although she is late for her own dinner, which she
will sit down to presently with madame the patronne, the good cook, and
the other girls who serve the small tables.[Illustration: WHAT IS GOING ON AT THE THEATERS]

This later feast will be augmented perhaps by half the good boys and
girls who have been dining at the long table.Perhaps they will all come
in and help shell the peas for to-morrow's dinner.And yet this is a
public place, where the painters come, and where one pays only for what
one orders.It is all very interesting to the four American girls, who
are dining at the small table.But what must Mimi think of these silent and exclusive strangers, and
what, too, must the tall girl in the bicycle bloomers think, and the
little girl who has been ill and who at the moment is dining with
Renould, the artist, and whom every one--even to the cook, is so glad to
welcome back after her long illness?There is an unsurmountable barrier
between the Americans at the little table in the corner and that jolly
crowd of good and kindly people at the long one, for Mimi and Henriette
and the little girl who has been so ill, and the French painters and
sculptors with them, cannot understand either the language of these
strangers or their views of life.exclaims one of the strangers in a whisper, "do look at that
queer little 'type' at the long table--the tall girl in black actually
kissed him!"Why, my dear, I saw it plainly!"There is no law against kissing in the open air in Paris,
and besides, the tall girl in black has known the little "type" for a
Parisienne age--thirty days or less.The four innocents, who have coughed through their soup and whispered
through the rest of the dinner, have now finished and are leaving, but
if those at the long table notice their departure, they do not show it.In the Quarter it is considered the height of rudeness to stare.You
will find these Suzannes and Marcelles exceedingly well-bred in the
little refinements of life, and you will note a certain innate dignity
and kindliness in their bearing toward others, which often makes one
wish to uncover his head in their presence.CHAPTER IX

"THE RAGGED EDGE OF THE QUARTER"


There are many streets of the Quarter as quiet as those of a country
village.Some of them, like the rue Vaugirard, lead out past gloomy
slaughter-houses and stables, through desolate sections of vacant
lots, littered with the ruins of factory and foundry whose tall,
smoke-begrimed chimneys in the dark stand like giant sentries, as if
pointing a warning finger to the approaching pedestrian, for these
ragged edges of the Quarter often afford at night a lurking-ground for
footpads.In just such desolation there lived a dozen students, in a small nest of
studios that I need not say were rented to them at a price within their
ever-scanty means.It was marveled at among the boys in the Quarter that
any of these exiles lived to see the light of another day, after
wandering back at all hours of the night to their stronghold.Possibly their sole possessions consisted of the clothes they had on, a
few bad pictures, and their several immortal geniuses.That the
gentlemen with the sand-bags knew of this I am convinced, for the
students were never molested.Verily, Providence lends a strong and
ready arm to the drunken man and the fool!The farther out one goes on the rue Vaugirard, the more desolate
and forbidding becomes this long highway, until it terminates at
the fortifications, near which is a huge, open field, kept clear
of such permanent buildings as might shelter an enemy in time of
war.Scattered over this space are the hovels of squatters and
gipsies--fortune-telling, horse-trading vagabonds, whose living-vans
at certain times of the year form part of the smaller fairs within
the Quarter.[Illustration: (factory chimneys along empty street)]

And very small and unattractive little fairs they are, consisting of
half a dozen or more wagons, serving as a yearly abode for these
shiftless people; illumined at night by the glare of smoking oil
torches.There is, moreover, a dingy tent with a half-drawn red curtain
that hides the fortune-telling beauty; and a traveling shooting-gallery,
so short that the muzzle of one's rifle nearly rests upon the painted
lady with the sheet-iron breastbone, centered by a pinhead of a
bull's-eye which never rings.There is often a small carousel, too,
which is not only patronized by the children, but often by a crowd of
students--boys and girls, who literally turn the merry-go-round into a
circus, and who for the time are cheered to feats of bareback riding by
the enthusiastic bystanders.These little Quarter fetes are far different from the great fete de
Neuilly across the Seine, which begins at the Porte Maillot, and
continues in a long, glittering avenue of side-shows, with mammoth
carousels, bizarre in looking-glass panels and golden figures.Within
the circle of all this throne-like gorgeousness, a horse-power organ
shakes the very ground with its clarion blasts, while pink and white
wooden pigs, their tails tied up in bows of colored ribbons, heave and
swoop round and round, their backs loaded with screaming girls and
shouting men.It was near this very same Port Maillot, in a colossal theater, built
originally for the representation of one of the Kiralfy ballets, that a
fellow student and myself went over from the Quarter one night to "supe"
in a spectacular and melodramatic pantomime, entitled "Afrique a Paris."We were invited by the sole proprietor and manager of the show--an
old circus-man, and one of the shrewdest, most companionable, and
intelligent of men, who had traveled the world over.He spoke no
language but his own unadulterated American.This, with his dominant
personality, served him wherever fortune carried him!So, accepting his invitation to play alternately the dying soldier and
the pursuing cannibal under the scorching rays of a tropical limelight,
and with an old pair of trousers and a flannel shirt wrapped in a
newspaper, we presented ourselves at the appointed hour, at the edge of
the hostile country.[Illustration: (street scene)]

Here we found ourselves surrounded by a horde of savages who needed no
greasepaint to stain their ebony bodies, and many of whose grinning
countenances I had often recognized along our own Tenderloin.Besides,
there were cowboys and "greasers" and diving elks, and a company of
French Zouaves; the latter, in fact, seemed to be the only thing foreign
about the show.Our friend, the manager, informed us that he had thrown
the entire spectacle together in about ten days, and that he had
gathered with ease, in two, a hundred of those dusky warriors, who had
left their coat-room and barber-shop jobs in New York to find themselves
stranded in Paris.He was a hustler, this circus-man, and preceding the spectacle of the
African war, he had entertained the audience with a short variety-show,
to brace the spectacle.He insisted on bringing us around in front and
giving us a box, so we could see for ourselves how good it really was.During this forepart, and after some clever high trapeze work,
the sensation of the evening was announced--a Signore, with an
unpronounceable name, would train a den of ten forest-bred lions!When the orchestra had finished playing "The Awakening of the Lion," the
curtain rose, disclosing the nerveless Signore in purple tights and
high-topped boots.A long, portable cage had been put together on the
stage during the intermission, and within it the ten pacing beasts.There is something terrifying about the roar of a lion as it begins with
its high-keyed moan, and descends in scale to a hoarse roar that seems
to penetrate one's whole nervous system.But the Signore did not seem to mind it; he placed one foot on the sill
of the safety-door, tucked his short riding-whip under his arm, pulled
the latch with one hand, forced one knee in the slightly opened door,
and sprang into the cage.went the iron door as it found its
lock.went the Signore's revolver, as he drove the snarling,
roaring lot into the corner of the cage.The smoke from his revolver
drifted out through the bars; the house was silent.The trainer walked
slowly up to the fiercest lion, who reared against the bars as he
approached him, striking at the trainer with his heavy paws, while the
others slunk into the opposite corner.The man's head was but half a
foot now from the lion's; he menaced the beast with the little
riding-whip; he almost, but did not quite strike him on the tip of his
black nose that worked convulsively in rage.Then the lion dropped
awkwardly, with a short growl, to his forelegs, and slunk, with the
rest, into the corner.It was the little
riding-whip they feared, for they had never gauged its sting.Not the
heavy iron bar within reach of his hand, whose force they knew."An ugly lot," I said, turning to our friend the manager, who had taken
his seat beside me."Yes," he mused, peering at the stage with his keen gray eyes; "green
stock, but a swell act, eh?I've got a
girl here who comes on and does art poses among the lions; she's a
dream--French, too!"A girl of perhaps twenty, enveloped in a bath gown, now appeared at the
wings.The next instant the huge theater became dark, and she stood in
full fleshings, in the center of the cage, brilliant in the rays of a
powerful limelight, while the lions circled about her at the command of
the trainer."Yes," said I, "she is.[Illustration: (portrait of woman)]

"No, she never worked with the cats before," he said; "she's new to the
show business; she said her folks live in Nantes.She worked here in a
chocolate factory until she saw my 'ad' last week and joined my show.We
gave her a rehearsal Monday and we put her on the bill next night.She's
a good looker with plenty of grit, and is a winner with the bunch in
front.""How did you get her to take the job?""Well," he replied, "she balked at the act at first, but I showed her
two violet notes from a couple of swell fairies who wanted the job, and
after that she signed for six weeks."he exclaimed dryly, and he bit the corner of his stubby
mustache and smiled."This is the last act in the olio, so you will have
to excuse me.*     *     *     *     *

There are streets and boulevards in the Quarter, sections of which are
alive with the passing throng and the traffic of carts and omnibuses.Then one will come to a long stretch of massive buildings, public
institutions, silent as convents--their interminable walls flanking
garden or court.Germain is just such a highway until it crosses the
Boulevard St.Michel--the liveliest roadway of the Quarter.Then it
seems to become suddenly inoculated with its bustle and life, and from
there on is crowded with bourgeoise and animated with the commerce of
market and shop.An Englishman once was so fired with a desire to see the gay life of the
Latin Quarter that he rented a suite of rooms on this same Boulevard St.Germain at about the middle of this long, quiet stretch.Here he stayed
a fortnight, expecting daily to see from his "chambers" the gaiety of a
Bohemia of which he had so often heard.At the end of his disappointing
sojourn, he returned to London, firmly convinced that the gay life of
the Latin Quarter was a myth.[Illustration: (crowded street market)]

But the man from Denver, the "Steel King," and the two thinner
gentlemen with the louis-lined waistcoats who accompanied him and whom
Fortune had awakened in the far West one morning and had led them to
"The Great Red Star copper mine"--a find which had ever since been a
source of endless amusement to them--discovered the Quarter before they
had been in Paris a day, and found it, too, "the best ever," as they
expressed it.They did not remain long in Paris, this rare crowd of seasoned genials,
for it was their first trip abroad and they had to see Switzerland and
Vienna, and the Rhine; but while they stayed they had a good time Every
Minute.The man from Denver and the Steel King sat at one of the small tables,
leaning over the railing at the "Bal Bullier," gazing at the sea of
dancers."Billy," said the man from Denver to the Steel King, "if they had this
in Chicago they'd tear out the posts inside of fifteen minutes"--he
wiped the perspiration from his broad forehead and pushed his
twenty-dollar Panama on the back of his head.he mused, clinching the butt of his perfecto between
his teeth.it beats all I ever see," and he chuckled to
himself, his round, genial face, with its double chin, wreathed in
smiles.he called to one of the 'copper twins,' "did you get on
to that little one in black that just went by--well!Already the pile of saucers on their table reached a foot high--a record
of refreshments for every Yvonne and Marcelle that had stopped in
passing."Certainly, sit right down," cried the Steel King."Here, Jack,"--this
to the aged garcon, "smoke up!and ask the ladies what they'll
have"--all of which was unintelligible to the two little Parisiennes and
the garcon, but quite clear in meaning to all three.interrupted the taller of the two girls, "un cafe
glace pour moi.""Et moi," answered her companion gayly, "Je prends une limonade!"thundered good-humoredly the man from Denver; "git 'em
a good drink.yes, that's it--whiskey--I see you're on,
and two.he explains, holding up two fat fingers, "all straight,
friend--two whiskeys with seltzer on the side--see?Now go roll your
hoop and git back with 'em.""Oh, non, monsieur!"cried the two Parisiennes in one breath; "whiskey!ca pique et c'est trop fort."At this juncture the flower woman arrived with a basketful of red roses."Voulez-vous des fleurs, messieurs et mesdames?""Certainly," cried the Steel King; "here, Maud and Mamie, take the lot,"
and he handed the two girls the entire contents of the basket.The
taller buried her face for a moment in the red Jaqueminots and drank in
their fragrance.When she looked up, two big tears trickled down to the
corners of her pretty mouth.The
smaller girl gave a little cry of delight and shook her roses above her
head as three other girls passed.Ten minutes later the two possessed
but a single rose apiece--they had generously given all the rest away.[Illustration: (portrait of woman)]

The "copper twins" had been oblivious of all this.They had been hanging
over the low balustrade, engaged in a heart-to-heart talk with two
pretty Quartier brunettes.It seemed to be really a case of love at
first sight, carried on somewhat under difficulties, for the "copper
twins" could not speak a word of French, and the English of the two chic
brunettes was limited to "Oh, yes!""Good morning," "Good
evening," and "I love you."The four held hands over the low railing,
until the "copper twins" fairly steamed in talk; warmed by the sun of
gaiety and wet by several rounds of Highland dew, they grew sad and
earnest, and got up and stepped all over the Steel King and the man from
Denver, and the two Parisiennes' daintily slippered feet, in squeezing
out past the group of round tables back of the balustrade, and down on
to the polished floor--where they are speedily lost to view in the maze
of dancers, gliding into the whirl with the two brunettes.When the
waltz is over they stroll out with them into the garden, and order wine,
and talk of changing their steamer date.The good American, with his spotless collar and his well-cut clothes,
with his frankness and whole-souled generosity, is a study to the modern
grisette.He seems strangely attractive to her, in contrast with a
certain type of Frenchman, that is selfish, unfaithful, and mean--that
jealousy makes uncompanionable and sometimes cruel.She will tell you
that these pale, black-eyed, and black-bearded boulevardiers are all
alike--lazy and selfish; so unlike many of the sterling, good fellows of
the Quarter--Frenchmen of a different stamp, and there are many of
these--rare, good Bohemians, with hearts and natures as big as all
out-doors--"bons garcons," which is only another way of saying
"gentlemen."As you tramp along back to your quarters some rainy night you find many
of the streets leading from the boulevards silent and badly lighted,
except for some flickering lantern on the corner of a long block which
sends the shadows scurrying across your path.You pass a student perhaps
and a girl, hurrying home--a fiacre for a short distance is a luxury in
the Quarter.Now you hear the click-clock of an approaching cab, the
cocher half asleep on his box.The hood of the fiacre is up, sheltering
the two inside from the rain.As the voiture rumbles by near a
street-light, you catch a glimpse of a pink silk petticoat within and a
pair of dainty, white kid shoes--and the glint of an officer's sword.Farther on, you pass a silent gendarme muffled in his night cloak; a few
doors farther on in a small cafe, a bourgeois couple, who have arrived
on a late train no doubt to spend a month with relatives in Paris, are
having a warming tipple before proceeding farther in the drizzling rain.They have, of course, invited the cocher to drink with them.They have
brought all their pets and nearly all their household goods--two dogs,
three bird-cages, their tiny occupants protected from the damp air by
several folds of newspaper; a cat in a stout paper box with air holes,
and two trunks, well tied with rope.[Illustration: (street market)]

"Ah, yes, it has been a long journey!"Her husband
corroborates her, as they explain to the patronne of the cafe and to the
cocher that they left their village at midday.Anything over two hours
on the chemin-de-fer is considered a journey by these good French
people!As you continue on to your studio, you catch a glimpse of the lights of
the Boulevard Montparnasse.Next a cab with a green light rattles by;
then a ponderous two-wheeled cart lumbers along, piled high with red
carrots as neatly arranged as cigars in a box--the driver asleep on his
seat near his swinging lantern--and the big Normandy horses taking the
way.It is late, for these carts are on their route to the early morning
market--one of the great Halles.The tired waiters are putting up the
shutters of the smaller cafes and stacking up the chairs.Now a cock
crows lustily in some neighboring yard; the majority at least of the
Latin Quarter has turned in for the night.A moment later you reach your
gate, feel instinctively for your matches.In the darkness of the court
a friendly cat rubs her head contentedly against your leg.It is the
yellow one that sleeps in the furniture factory, and you pick her up and
carry her to your studio, where, a moment later, she is crunching
gratefully the remnant of the beau maquereau left from your
dejeuner--for charity begins at home.CHAPTER X

EXILED


Scores of men, celebrated in art and in literature, have, for a longer
or shorter period of their lives, been bohemians of the Latin Quarter.And yet these years spent in cafes and in studios have not turned them
out into the world a devil-me-care lot of dreamers.They have all
marched and sung along the "Boul' Miche"; danced at the "Bullier";
starved, struggled, and lived in the romance of its life.It has all
been a part of their education, and a very important part too, in the
development of their several geniuses, a development which in later life
has placed them at the head of their professions.These years of
camaraderie--of a life free from all conventionalities, in daily touch
with everything about them, and untrammeled by public censure or the
petty views of prudish or narrow minds, have left them free to cut a
straight swath merrily toward the goal of their ideals, surrounded all
the while by an atmosphere of art and good-fellowship that permeates the
very air they breathe.If a man can work at all, he can work here, for between the
working-hours he finds a life so charming, that once having lived
it he returns to it again and again, as to an old love.How many are the romances of this student Quarter!How many hearts have
been broken or made glad!How many brave spirits have suffered and
worked on and suffered again, and at last won fame!We who come with a fresh eye know nothing of all that has passed
within these quaint streets--only those who have lived in and through it
know its full story.[Illustration: THE MUSEE CLUNY]

Pochard has seen it; so has the little old woman who once danced at the
opera; so have old Bibi La Puree, and Alphonse, the gray-haired garcon,
and Mere Gaillard, the flower-woman.They have seen the gay boulevards
and the cafes and generations of grisettes, from the true grisette of
years gone by, in her dainty white cap and simple dress turned low at
the throat, to the tailor-made grisette of to-day.Yet the eyes of the little old woman still dance; they have not grown
tired of this ever-changing kaleidoscope of human nature, this paradise
of the free, where many would rather struggle on half starved than live
a life of luxury elsewhere.I knew one once who lived in an
air-castle of his own building--a tall, serious fellow, a sculptor, who
always went tramping about in a robe resembling a monk's cowl, with his
bare feet incased in coarse sandals; only his art redeemed these
eccentricities, for he produced in steel and ivory the most exquisite
statuettes.One at the Salon was the sensation of the day--a knight in
full armor, scarcely half a foot in height, holding in his arms a nymph
in flesh-tinted ivory, whose gentle face, upturned, gazed sweetly into
the stern features behind the uplifted vizor; and all so exquisitely
carved, so alive, so human, that one could almost feel the tender heart
of this fair lady beating against the cold steel breastplate.Another "bon garcon"--a painter whose enthusiasm for his art knew no
bounds--craved to produce a masterpiece.This dreamer could be seen
daily ferreting around the Quarter for a studio always bigger than the
one he had.At last he found one that exactly fitted the requirements of
his vivid imagination--a studio with a ceiling thirty feet high, with
windows like the scenic ones next to the stage entrances of the
theaters.Here at last he could give full play to his brush--no subject
seemed too big for him to tackle; he would move in a canvas as big as a
back flat to a third act, and commence on a "Fall of Babylon" or a
"Carnage of Rome" with a nerve that was sublime!The choking dust of the
arena--the insatiable fury of the tigers--the cowering of hundreds of
unfortunate captives--and the cruel multitude above, seated in the vast
circle of the hippodrome--all these did not daunt his zeal.Once he persuaded a venerable old abbe to pose for his portrait.The
old gentleman came patiently to his studio and posed for ten days, at
the end of which time the abbe gazed at the result and said things which
I dare not repeat--for our enthusiast had so far only painted his
clothes; the face was still in its primary drawing."The face I shall do in time," the enthusiast assured the reverend man
excitedly; "it is the effect of the rich color of your robe I wished to
get.And may I ask your holiness to be patient a day longer while I put
in your boots?""Does monsieur think I am not a
very busy man?"Then softening a little, he said, with a smile:

"I won't come any more, my friend.I'll send my boots around to-morrow
by my boy."But the longest red-letter day has its ending, and time and tide beckon
one with the brutality of an impatient jailer.On my studio table is a well-stuffed envelope containing the documents
relative to my impending exile--a stamped card of my identification,
bearing the number of my cell, a plan of the slave-ship, and six red
tags for my baggage.The three pretty daughters of old Pere Valois know of my approaching
departure, and say cheering things to me as I pass the concierge's
window.Pere Valois stands at the gate and stops me with: "Is it true, monsieur,
you are going Saturday?""Yes," I answer; "unfortunately, it is quite true."The old man sighs and replies: "I once had to leave Paris myself";
looking at me as if he were speaking to an old resident."My regiment
was ordered to the colonies.It was hard, monsieur, but I did my duty."The patron of the tobacco-shop,
and madame his good wife, and the wine merchant, and the baker along the
little street with its cobblestone-bed, have all wished me "bon voyage,"
accompanied with many handshakings.It is getting late and Pere Valois
has gone to hunt for a cab--a "galerie," as it is called, with a place
for trunks on top.Twenty minutes go by, but no "galerie" is in sight.The three daughters of Pere Valois run in different directions to find
one, while I throw the remaining odds and ends in the studio into my
valise.At last there is a sound of grating wheels below on the gravel
court.The "galerie" has arrived--with the smallest of the three
daughters inside, all out of breath from her run and terribly excited.There are the trunks and the valises and the bicycle in its crate to get
down.Two soldiers, who have been calling on two of the daughters, come
up to the studio and kindly offer their assistance.There is no time to
lose, and in single file the procession starts down the atelier stairs,
headed by Pere Valois, who has just returned from his fruitless search
considerably winded, and the three girls, the two red-trousered soldiers
and myself tugging away at the rest of the baggage.It is not often one departs with the assistance of three pretty femmes
de menage, a jolly old concierge, and a portion of the army of the
French Republic.With many suggestions from my good friends and an
assuring wave of the hand from the aged cocher, my luggage is roped and
chained to the top of the rickety, little old cab, which sways and
squeaks with the sudden weight, while the poor, small horse, upon whom
has been devolved the task of making the 11.35 train, Gare St.Lazare,
changes his position wearily from one leg to the other.He is evidently
thinking out the distance, and has decided upon his gait.cry the three girls and Pere Valois and the two soldiers,
as the last trunk is chained on.The dingy vehicle groans its way slowly out of the court.Just as it
reaches the last gate it stops.I ask, poking my head out of the window."Monsieur," says the aged cocher, "it is an impossibility!I regret very
much to say that your bicycle will not pass through the gate."A dozen heads in the windows above offer suggestions.I climb out and
take a look; there are at least four inches to spare on either side in
passing through the iron posts.cries my cocher enthusiastically, "monsieur is right, happily for
us!"He cracks his whip, the little horse gathers itself together--a moment
of careful driving and we are through and into the street and rumbling
away, amid cheers from the windows above.As I glance over my traps, I
see a small bunch of roses tucked in the corner of my roll of rugs with
an engraved card attached."From Mademoiselle Ernestine Valois," it
reads, and on the other side is written, in a small, fine hand, "Bon
voyage."I look back to bow my acknowledgment, but it is too late; we have turned
the corner and the rue Vaugirard is but a memory!*     *     *     *     *

But why go on telling you of what the little shops contain--how narrow
and picturesque are the small streets--how gay the boulevards--what they
do at the "Bullier"--or where they dine?It is Love that moves Paris--it
is the motive power of this big, beautiful, polished city--the love of
adventure, the love of intrigue, the love of being a bohemian if you
will--but it is Love all the same!"I work for love," hums the little couturiere."I work for love," cries the miller of Marcel Legay."I live for love," sings the poet."For the love of art I am a painter," sighs Edmond, in his atelier--"and
for her!""For the love of it I mold and model and create," chants the
sculptor--"and for her!"It is the Woman who dominates Paris--"Les petites femmes!"who have
inspired its art through the skill of these artisans.cries a poor old
woman outside of your train compartment, as you are leaving Havre for
Paris.screams a girl, running near the open window with a little
fishergirl doll uplifted.I see," cries the
pretty vendor; "but it is a boy doll--he will be sad if he goes to
Paris without a companion!"Take all the little fishergirls away from Paris--from the Quartier
Latin--and you would find chaos and a morgue!that is it--L'amour!--L'amour!--L'amour![Illustration: (burning candle)]




  TRANSCRIBER'S AMENDMENTS:

  Page 25: dejeuner amended to dejeuner.Page 25: Saints-Peres amended to Saints-Peres.Page 36: aperatif amended to aperitif.Page 37: boite amended to boite.Page 51 & 63: Celeste amended to Celeste.Page 52: gayety amended to gaiety.Page 57: a a amended to a.
  Page 60: glace amended to glace.Page 64: Quatz amended to Quat'z'.Page 78: sufficently amended to sufficiently.Page 196: MUSEE amended to MUSEE.If Miss Hargrove had divined the past, or had received a hint concerning
it, why should she not shun his society?He was half-desperate, and yet
felt that any show of embarrassment or anger would only make him appear
more ridiculous.The longer he thought the more sure he was that the
girls were beginning to guess his position, and that his only course was
a polite indifference to both.But this policy promised to lead through a
thorny path, and to what?In impotent rage at himself he ground his teeth
during the pauses between the stanzas that he was compelled to sing.Such
was the discord in his heart that he felt like uttering notes that would
make "night hideous."He was still more distraught when, on their return, they found Mr.Hargrove's carriage in waiting, and Amy, after a brief conference with
her friend in her room, came down prepared to accompany Miss Hargrove
home after supper.In spite of all his efforts at ease and gayety, his
embarrassment and trouble were evident.He had observed Miss Hargrove's
pallor and her effort to keep up at Fort Putnam, and could not banish the
hope that she sympathized with him; but now the young girl was demurely
radiant.Her color had come again, and the lustre of her beautiful eyes
was dazzling.Yet they avoided his, and she had far more to say to Webb
and the others than to him.Webb, too, was perplexed, for during the day
Amy had been as bewildering to him as to Burt.But he was in no
uncertainty as to his course, which was simply to wait.He, with Burt,
saw the girls to the carriage, and the latter said good-night rather
coldly and stiffly.Alf and Fred parted regretfully, with the promise of
a correspondence which would be as remarkable for its orthography as for
its natural history.CHAPTER LII

BURT'S SORE DILEMMA


Mr.Hargrove greeted Amy cordially, but his questioning eyes rested
oftenest on his daughter.Her expression and manner caused him to pace
his study long and late that night.Hargrove was very polite and a
little stately.She felt that she existed on a plane above Amy.The young girls soon pleaded fatigue, and retired.Once in the seclusion
of their room they forgot all about their innocent fib, and there was not
a trace of weariness in their manner.While Burt was staring at his
dismal, tangled fortune, seeing no solution of his difficulties, a
fateful conference relating to him was taking place.Amy did not look
like a scorner, as with a sister's love and a woman's tact she pleaded
his cause and palliated his course to one incapable of harsh judgment.But she felt that she must be honest with her friend, and that the whole
truth would be best and safest.Her conclusion was: "No man who loved
_you_, and whom you encouraged, would ever change.I know now that I
never had a particle of such feeling as you have for Burt, and can see
that I naturally chilled and quenched his regard for me."Miss Hargrove's dark eyes flashed ominously as she spoke of Burt or of
any man proving faithless after she had given encouragement."But it wasn't possible for me to give him any real encouragement," Amy
persisted."I've never felt as you do, and am not sure that I want to for
a long time."Miss Hargrove almost said, but she suppressed the
words, feeling that since he had not revealed his secret she had no right
to do so.Indeed, as she recalled how sedulously he had guarded it she
was sure he would not thank her for suggesting it to Amy before she was
ready for the knowledge.Impetuous as Miss Hargrove was at times, she had
too fine a nature to be careless of the rights and feelings of others.Moreover, she felt that Webb had been her ally, whether consciously or
not, and he should have his chance with all the help she could give him,
but she was wise enough to know that obtrusion and premature aid are
often disastrous.The decision, after this portentous conference, was: "Mr.Bart must seek
me, and seek very zealously.I know you well enough Amy, to be sure that
you will give him no hints.It's bad enough to love a man before I've
been asked to do so.What an utterly perverse and unmanageable thing
one's heart is!I shall do no angling, however, nor shall I permit any.""You may stand up straight, Gertrude," said Amy, laughing, "but don't
lean over backward."Burt entertained half a dozen wild and half-tragic projects before he
fell asleep late that night, but finally, in utter self-disgust, settled
down on the prosaic and not irrational one of helping through with the
fall work on the farm, and then of seeking some business or profession to
which he could give his whole mind."As to ladies' society," he
concluded, savagely, "I'll shun it hereafter till I'm grown up."Burt always attained a certain kind of peace and the power to sleep after
he had reached an irrevocable decision.During the night the wind veered to the east, and a cold, dismal
rain-storm set in.Dull and dreary indeed the day proved to Burt.He
could not go out and put his resolution into force.He fumed about the
house, restless, yet reticent.He would rather have fought dragons than
keep company with his own thoughts in inaction.All the family supposed
he missed Amy, except Webb, who hoped he missed some one else."Why don't you go over and bring Amy home, Burt?"his mother asked, at
the dinner-table."The house seems empty without her, and everybody is
moping.Even father has fretted over his newspaper, and wished Amy was
here.""Why can't they print an edition of the paper for old men and dark days?""Well," remarked Leonard, leaning back in his chair, and looking
humorously at Maggie, "I'm sorry for you young fellows, but I'm finding
the day serene.""Of course you are," snapped Burt."With an armchair to doze in and a
dinner to look forward to, what more do you wish?As for Webb, he can
always get astride of some scientific hobby, no matter how bad the
weather is.""As for Burt, he can bring Amy home, and then every one will be
satisfied," added his mother, smiling.Thus a new phase of his trial presented itself to poor Burt.He must
either face those two girls after their night's conclave, with all its
possible revelations, or else awaken at once very embarrassing surmises.And in a mood of mingled
recklessness and fear he drove through the storm.When his name was
announced the girls smiled significantly, but went down looking as
unconscious as if they had not spoken of him in six months, and Burt
could not have been more suave, non-committal, and impartially polite if
these ladies had been as remote from his thoughts as one of Webb's
theories.At the same time he intimated that he would be ready to return
when Amy was.At parting the friends gave each other a little look of dismay, and he
caught it from the same telltale mirror that persisted in taking a part
in this drama.though the young fellow, "so they have been exchanging confidences,
and my manner is disconcerting--not what was expected.If I have become a
jest between them it shall be a short-lived one.Miss Hargrove, with all
her city experience, shall find that I'm not so young and verdant but that
I can take a hand in this game also.As for Amy, I now know she never cared
for me, and I don't believe she ever would;" and so he went away with
laughing repartee, and did not see the look of deep disappointment with
which he was followed.Her innocent schemes might not be so
easily accomplished if Burt would be wrong-headed.She was aware of the
dash of recklessness in his character, and feared that under the impulse
of pride he might spoil everything, or, at least, cause much needless
delay.With the fatality of blundering which usually attends upon such
occasions, he did threaten to fulfil her fears, and so successfully that
Amy was in anxiety, and Miss Hargrove grew as pale as she was resolute
not to make the least advance, while poor Webb felt that his suspense
never would end.Burt treated Amy in an easy, fraternal manner.He
engaged actively in the task of gathering and preparing for market the
large crop of apples, and he openly broached the subject of going into a
business of some kind away from home, where, he declared, with a special
meaning for Amy, he was not needed, adding: "It's time I was earning my
salt and settling down to something for life.Webb and Len can take care
of all the land, and I don't believe I was cut out for a farmer."He not only troubled Amy exceedingly, but he perplexed all the family,
for it seemed that he was decidedly taking a new departure.One evening,
a day or two after he had introduced the project of going elsewhere, his
father, to Amy's dismay, suggested that he should go to the far West and
look after a large tract of land which the old gentleman had bought some
years before.It was said that a railroad was to be built through it,
and, if so, the value of the property would be greatly enhanced, and
steps should be taken to get part of it into the market.Burt took hold
of the scheme with eagerness, and was for going as soon as possible.Looking to note the effect of his words upon Amy, he saw that her
expression was not only reproachful, but almost severe.Leonard heartily
approved of the plan.Webb was silent, and in deep despondency, feeling
that if Bart went now nothing would be settled.He saw Amy's aversion to
the project also, and misinterpreted it.She was compelled to admit that the prospects were growing very dark.Burt might soon depart for an indefinite absence, and Miss Hargrove
return to the city.Amy, who had looked upon the mutations in her own
prospects so quietly, was almost feverishly eager to aid her friend.She
feared she had blundered on the mountain ride.Burt's pride had been
wounded, and he had received the impression that his April-like moods had
been discussed satirically.It was certain that he had been very deeply
interested in Gertrude, and that he was throwing away not only his
happiness, but also hers; and Amy felt herself in some degree to blame.Therefore she was bent upon ending the senseless misunderstanding, but
found insurmountable embarrassments on every side.Miss Hargrove was
prouder than Burt.Wild horses could not draw her to the Cliffords', With
a pale, resolute face, she declined even to put herself in the way of
receiving the least advance.Amy would gladly have taken counsel of Webb,
but could not do so without revealing her friend's secret, and also
disclosing mere surmises about Burt, which, although amounting to
conviction in her mind, could not be mentioned.Therefore, from the very
delicacy of the situation, she felt herself helpless.Nature was her
ally, however, and if all that was passing in Burt's mind had been
manifest, the ardent little schemer would not have been so despondent.The best hope of Burt had been that he had checkmated the girls in their
disposition to make jesting comparisons, He would retire with so much
nonchalance as to leave nothing to be said.They would find complete
inaction and silence hard to combat.But the more he thought of it the
less it seemed like an honorable retreat.He had openly wooed one girl,
he had since lost his heart to another, and she had given him a glimpse
of strong regard, if not more.His thoughts were busy with her every word
and glance.How much had his tones and eyes revealed to her?Might she
not think him a heartless flirt if he continued to avoid her and went
away without a word?Would it not be better to be laughed at as one who
did not know his own mind than be despised for deliberate trifling?Amy
had asked him to go and spend an evening with her friend, and he had
pleaded weariness as an excuse.Her incredulous look and rather cool
manner since had not been reassuring.She had that very morning broached
the subject of a chestnutting party for the following day, and he had
promptly said that he was going to the city to make inquiries about
routes to the West."Why, Burt, you can put off your trip to town for a day," said his
mother."If you are to leave us so soon you should make the most of the
days that are left.""That is just what he is doing," Amy remarked, satirically."He has
become absorbed in large business considerations.Those of us who have
not such resources are of no consequence."The old people and Leonard believed that Amy was not pleased with the
idea of Burt's going away, but they felt that she was a little
unreasonable, since the young fellow was rather to be commended for
wishing to take life more seriously.But her words rankled in Burt's
mind.He felt that she understood him better than the others, and that he
was not winning respect from her.In the afternoon he saw her, with Alf
and Johnnie, starting for the chestnut-trees, and although she passed not
far away she gave him only a slight greeting, and did not stop for a
little merry banter, as usual.The young fellow was becoming very
unhappy, and he felt that his position was growing intolerable.That Amy
should be cold toward him, or, indeed, toward any one, was an unheard-of
thing, and he knew that she must feel that there was good reason for her
manner."What are she and
Miss Hargrove thinking about me?"The more he thought upon the past the more awkward and serious appeared
his dilemma, and his long Western journey, which at first he had welcomed
as promising a diversion of excitement and change, now began to appear
like exile.He dreaded to think of the memories he must take with him;
still more he deprecated the thoughts he would leave behind him.His
plight made him so desperate that he suddenly left the orchard where he
was gathering apples, went to the house, put on his riding-suit, and in a
few moments was galloping furiously away on his black horse.With a
renewal of hope Webb watched his proceedings, and with many surmises,
Amy, from a distant hillside, saw him passing at a break-neck pace.CHAPTER LIII

BURT'S RESOLVE


For the first two or three miles Burt rode as if he were trying to leave
care behind him, scarcely heeding what direction he took.When at last he
reined his reeking horse he found himself near the entrance of the lane
over which willows met in a Gothic arch.He yielded to the impulse to visit
the spot which had seen the beginning of so fateful an acquaintance, and
had not gone far when a turn in the road revealed a group whose presence
almost made his heart stand still for a moment.Miss Hargrove had stopped
her horse on the very spot where he had aided her in her awkward
predicament.Her back was toward him, and her great dog was at her side,
looking up into her face, as if in mute sympathy with his fair mistress.She could not be there with bowed head if
she despised him.Her presence seemed in harmony with that glance by
which, when weak and unnerved after escaping from deadly peril, she had
revealed possibly more than gratitude to the one who had rescued her.His
love rose like an irresistible tide, and he resolved that before he left
his home Amy and Miss Hargrove should know the whole truth, whatever
might be the result.Meanwhile he was rapidly approaching the young girl,
and the dog's short bark of recognition was her first intimation of
Hurt's presence.Her impulse was to fly, but in a second she saw the
absurdity of this course, and yet she was greatly embarrassed, and would
rather have been discovered by him at almost any other point of the
globe.She was going to the city on the morrow, and as she had drawn rein
on this spot and realized the bitterness of her disappointment, tears
would come.She wiped them hastily away, but dreaded lest their traces
should be seen.Turning her horse, she met Burt with a smile that her moist eyes belied,
and said: "I'm glad you do not find me in such an awkward plight as when
we first met here.and away like the wind she started homeward.Burt easily kept at her side, but conversation was impossible.At last he
said: "My horse is very tired, Miss Hargrove.At this pace you will soon
be home, and I shall feel that you are seeking to escape from me.Have I
fallen so very low in your estimation?""Why," she exclaimed, in well-feigned surprise, as she checked her horse,
"what have you done that you should fall in my estimation?""I shall tell you before very long," he said, with an expression that
seemed almost tragic.Surely
this brief gallop cannot have so tried your superb beast."Oh, no," he replied, with a grim laugh.I had been riding rapidly before I met you.My horse has been
idle for some days, and I had to run the spirit out of him.Amy wishes to
have a chestnutting party to-morrow.Clifford, but I return to the city tomorrow afternoon,
and was coming over in the morning to say good-by to Amy and your father
and mother.""I am very sorry too," he said, in tones that gave emphasis to his words.She turned upon him a swift, questioning glance, but her eyes instantly
fell before his intense gaze."Oh, well," she said, lightly, "we've had a very pleasant summer, and all
things must come to an end, you know."Then she went on speaking, in a
matter-of-fact way, of the need of looking after Fred, who was alone in
town, and of getting the city house in order, and of her plans for the
winter, adding: "As there is a great deal of fruit on the place, papa
does not feel that he can leave just yet.You know he goes back and forth
often, and so his business does not suffer.But I can just as well go
down now, and nearly all my friends have returned to town.""All your friends, Miss Hargrove?""Amy has promised to visit me soon," she said, hastily."It would seem that I am not down on your list of friends," he began,
gloomily.Clifford, I'm sure papa and I would be glad to have you call
whenever you are in town.""I fear I shall have to disappoint Mr.Hargrove," he said, a little
satirically."I'm going West the last of this month, and may be absent
much of the winter.I expect to look about in that section for some
opening in business.""Indeed," she replied, in tones which were meant to convey but little
interest, yet which had a slight tremor in spite of her efforts."It will
be a very great change for you.""Perhaps you think that constitutes its chief charm."Clifford," she said, "what chance have I had to think about it at
all?(Amy had, however, and
Gertrude had not only thought about it, but dreamed of it, as if she had
been informed that on a certain date the world would end.)"Is it not a
rather sudden plan?"My father has a large tract of land in the West, and it's
time it was looked after.Isn't it natural that I should think of doing
something in life?I fear there is an impression in your mind that I
entertain few thoughts beyond having a good time.""To have a good time in life," she said, smiling at him, "is a very
serious matter, worthy of any one's attention.It would seem that few
accomplish it.""And I greatly fear that I shall share in the ill-success of the
majority."You will soon be
enjoying the excitement of travel and enterprise in the West.""And you the excitement of society and conquest in the city.Conquests,
however, must be almost wearisome to you, Miss Hargrove, you make them so
easily."I certainly should soon weary of conquests were I
making them.Where in
history do we read of a man who was satiated with conquest?"Are you going to the city to-morrow?""Will you forgive me if I come alone?"I suppose Amy will be tired from nutting."He did not reply, but lifted his hat gravely, mounted his horse, and
galloped away as if he were an aid bearing a message that might avert a
battle.Miss Hargrove hastened to her room, and took off her hat with trembling
hands.Burt's pale, resolute face told her that the crisis in her life
had come.If he meant to speak,
why had he not done so?why had he not asked permission to consult her
father?Hargrove, from his library window, saw Burt's formal parting, and
concluded that his fears or hopes--he scarcely knew which were uppermost,
so deep was his love for his daughter, and so painful would it be to see
her unhappy--were not to be fulfilled.By a great effort Gertrude
appeared not very _distraite_ at dinner, nor did she mention Burt,
except in a casual manner, in reply to a question from her mother, but
her father thought he detected a strong and suppressed excitement.She excused herself early from the table, and said she must finish
packing for her departure.CHAPTER LIV

A GENTLE EXORCIST


Burt's black horse was again white before he approached his home.In the
distance he saw Amy returning, the children running on before, Alf
whooping like a small Indian to some playmate who was answering further
away.The gorgeous sunset lighted up the still more brilliant foliage,
and made the scene a fairyland.But Burt had then no more eye for nature
than a man would have who had staked his all on the next throw of the
dice.Amy was alone, and now was his chance to intercept her before she
reached the house.Imagine her surprise as she saw him make his horse
leap the intervening fences, and come galloping toward her."Burt," she cried, as he, in a moment or two, reined up near her, "you
will break your neck!""It wouldn't matter much," he said, grimly."I fear a worse fate than
that."He threw the bridle over a stake in the fence, and the horse was glad to
rest, with drooping head.Then he came and stood beside her, his face
flushed, and his mouth twitching with excitement and strong feeling."Burt," she said, "what is the matter?"I fear your scorn, Amy," he began, impetuously; "I fear I shall lose
your respect forever.But I can't go on any longer detesting myself and
feeling that you and Miss Hargrove despise me.I may seem to you and her
a fickle fool, a man of straw, but you shall both know the truth.I
shan't go away a coward.I can at least be honest, and then you may think
what you please of my weakness and vacillation.You cannot think worse
things than I think myself, but you must not imagine that I am a
cold-blooded, deliberate trifler, for that has never been true.I know
you don't care for me, and never did.""Indeed, Burt, you are mistaken.I do care for you immensely," said Amy,
eagerly clasping his arm with both her hands."Amy, Amy," said Burt, in a low, desperate tone, "think how few short
months have passed since I told you I loved you, and protested I would
wait till I was gray.You have seen me giving my thoughts to another, and
in your mind you expect to see me carried away by a half-dozen more.You
are mistaken, but it will take a long time to prove it.""No, Burt, I understand you better than you think.Gertrude has inspired
in you a very different feeling from the one you had for me.I think you
are loving now with a man's love, and won't get over it very soon, if you
ever do.You have seen, you must have felt, that my love for you was only
that of a sister, and of course you soon began to feel toward me in the
same way.I don't believe I would have married you had you waited an age.Don't fret, I'm not going to break my heart about you.""I should think not, nor will any one else.Oh, Amy, I so despised myself
that I have been half-desperate.""Despised yourself because you love a girl like Gertrude Hargrove!I
never knew a man to do a more natural and sensible thing, whether she
gave you encouragement or not.If I were a man I would make love to her,
rest assured, and she would have to refuse me more than once to be rid of
me."Burt took a long breath of immense relief."You are heavenly kind," he
said."Are you sure you won't despise me?It seems
to me that I have done such an awfully mean thing in making love to you
in my own home, and then in changing.""Fate has been too strong for you, and I
think--I mean--I hope, it has been kind.Bless you, Burt, I could never
get up any such feeling as sways you.I should always be disappointing,
and you would have found out, sooner or later, that your best chance
would be to discover some one more responsive.Since you have been so
frank, I'll be so too.I was scarcely more ready for your words last
spring than Johnnie, but I was simple enough to think that in half a
dozen years or so we might be married if all thought it was best, and my
pride was a little hurt when I saw what--what--well, Gertrude's influence
over you.But I've grown much older the last few months, and know now
that my thoughts were those of a child.My feeling for you is simply that
of a sister, and I don't believe it would ever have changed.I
might eventually have an acute attack also, and then I should be in a
worse predicament than yours.""But you will be my loving sister as long as you live, Amy?You will
believe that I have a little manhood if given a chance to show it?""I believe it now, Burt, and I can make you a hundredfold better sister
than wife.It seems but the other day I was playing with dolls.You have judged yourself too harshly;" and she
looked at him so smilingly and affectionately that he took her in his
arms and kissed her again and again, exclaiming, "You can count on one
brother to the last drop of his blood.Oh, Amy, whatever happens now, I
won't lose courage.Miss Hargrove will have to say no a dozen times
before she is through with me."At this moment Webb, from the top of a tall ladder in the orchard,
happened to glance that way, and saw the embrace.He instantly descended,
threw down his basket of apples, and with it all hope.The coolness between them had been but a misunderstanding, which
apparently had been banished most decidedly.He mechanically took down
his ladder and placed it on the ground, then went to his room to prepare
for supper."Burt," cried Amy, when they were half-way home, "you have forgotten your
horse.""If he were Pegasus, I should have forgotten him to-day."Oh, yes, I'll do anything for you.""Will you tell me if you think Miss
Hargrove--"

"No, I won't tell you anything.After she has refused you half
a dozen times, I may, out of pity, intercede a little.Go get your horse,
smooth your brow, and be sensible, or you'll have Webb and Leonard poking
fun at you.Suppose they have seen you galloping over fences and ditches
like one possessed.""Well, I was possessed, and never was there such a kind, gentle exorcist.I have seen Miss Hargrove to-day; I had just parted from her."How could I, until I had told you?I felt I was bound to you by
all that can bind a man.""Oh, Burt, suppose I had not released you, but played Shylock, what would
you have done?"and her laugh rang out again in intense merriment."I had no fears of that," he replied, ruefully."You are the last one to
practice Mrs.My fear was that you and Miss
Hargrove both would send me West as a precious good riddance.""Well, it was square of you, as Alf says, to come to me first, and I
appreciate it, but I should not have resented the omission.Will you
forgive my curiosity if I ask what is the next move in the campaign?I've
been reading about the war, you know, and I am quite military in my
ideas.""I have Miss Hargrove's permission to call to-night.It wasn't given very
cordially, and she asked me to bring you.""Oh, I told her she would have to forgive me if I came alone.I meant to
have it out to-day, if old Chaos came again."When Amy's renewed laughter
so subsided that he could speak, he resumed: "I'm going over there after
supper, to ask her father for permission to pay my addresses, and if he
won't give it, I shall tell him I will pay them all the same--that I
shall use every effort in my power to win his daughter.I don't want a
dollar of his money, but I'm bound to have the girl if she'll ever listen
to me after knowing all you know."Amy's laugh ceased, and she again clasped her hands on his arm."Dear
Burt," she said, "your course now seems to me manly and straightforward.I saw the strait you were in, but did not think you felt it so keenly.In
going West I feared you were about to run away from it.However Gertrude
may treat you, you have won my respect by your downright truth.She may
do as she pleases, but she can't despise you now.He has learned this afternoon that you are in no state of
mind to take care of him."CHAPTER LV

BURT TELLS HIS LOVE AGAIN


Webb appeared at the supper-table the personification of quiet geniality,
but Amy thought she had never seen him look so hollow-eyed.The long
strain was beginning to tell on him, decidedly, and to-night he felt as
if he had received a mortal blow.But with indomitable courage he hid his
wound, and seemed absorbed in a conversation with Leonard and his father
about the different varieties of apples, and their relative value.Amy
saw that his mother was looking at him anxiously, and she did not wonder.He was growing thin even to gauntness.Burt also was an arrant dissembler, and on rising from the table remarked
casually that he was going over to bid Miss Hargrove good-by, as she
would return to town on the morrow."She'll surely come and see us before she goes," Mrs."It seems to me she hasn't been very sociable of late."She told me she
was coming to say good-by to us all, and she has asked me to visit her.Come, Webb, you look all tired out to-night.I'll
stumble through the dryest scientific treatise you have if I can see you
resting on the sofa.""That's ever so kind of you, Amy, and I appreciate it more than you
imagine, but I'm going out this evening.""Oh, of course, sisters are of no account.What girl are _you_ going
to see?"I am too old and dull to entertain the pretty
creatures."You know one you could entertain if she isn't a pretty
creature, but then she's only a sister who doesn't know much.""I'm sorry--I must go," he said, a little abruptly, for her lovely,
half-laughing, half-reproachful face, turned to his, contained such
mocking promise of happiness that he could not look upon it.His rapid steps as he walked mile after mile indicated
that the matter was pressing indeed; but, although it was late before he
returned, he had spoken to no one.The house was dark and silent except
that a light was burning in Burt's room.And his momentous fortunes the
reader must now follow.Miss Hargrove, with a fluttering heart, heard the rapid feet of his horse
as he rode up the avenue.Truly, he was coming at a lover's pace.The
door-bell rang, she heard him admitted, and expected the maid's tap at
her door to follow.Were the tumultuous throbs of
her heart so loud that she could not hear it?She opened her door slightly; there was no
sound.There below, like a shadow, stood a
saddled horse.Had the stupid girl shown him into
the drawing-room and left him there?Surely the well-trained servant had
never been guilty of such a blunder before.Could it have been some one
else who had come to see her father on business?She stole down the
stairway in a tremor of apprehension, and strolled into the parlor in the
most nonchalant manner imaginable.It was lighted, but empty, and her
expression suddenly became one of troubled perplexity.She returned to
the hall, and started as if she had seen an apparition.There on the rack
hung Burt's hat, as natural as life.Voices reached her ear from her
father's study.She took a few swift steps toward it, then fled to her
room, and stood panting before her mirror, which reflected a young lady
in a costume charmingly ill adapted to "packing.""It was honorable in
him to speak to papa first, and papa would not, could not, answer him
without consulting me.I cannot be treated as a child any longer," she
muttered, with flashing eyes."Papa loves me," she murmured, in swift
alternation of gentle feeling."He could not make my happiness secondary
to a paltry sum of money."Hargrove had greeted him with
no little surprise.The parting of the young people had not promised any
such interview."Have you spoken to my daughter on this subject?"Hargrove asked,
gravely, after the young fellow had rather incoherently made known his
errand."No, sir," replied Burt, "I have not secured your permission.At the same
time," he added, with an ominous flash in his blue eyes, "sincerity
compels me to say that I could not take a final refusal from any lips
except those of your daughter, and not readily from hers.I would not
give up effort to win her until convinced that any amount of patient
endeavor was useless.I should not persecute her, but I would ask her to
reconsider an adverse answer as often as she would permit, and I will try
with all my soul to render myself more worthy of her."Hargrove, severely, "if I should decline this
honor, I should count for nothing.""No, sir, I do not mean that, and I hope I haven't said it, even by
implication.Your consent that I should have a fair field in which to do
my best would receive from me boundless gratitude.What I mean to say is,
that I could not give her up; I should not think it right to do so.This
question is vital to me, and I know of no reason," he added, a little
haughtily, "why I should be refused a privilege which is considered the
right of every gentleman.""I have not in the slightest degree raised the question of your being a
gentleman, Mr.Your course in coming to me before revealing
your regard to my daughter proves that you are one.But you should
realize that you are asking a great deal of me.My child's happiness is
my first and only consideration.You know the condition of life to which
my daughter has been accustomed.It is right and natural that I should
also know something of your prospects, your ability to meet the
obligations into which you wish to enter."After a moment he answered,
with a dignity and an evident sincerity which won golden opinions from
Mr.Hargrove: "I shall not try to mislead you in the least on this point.For my own sake I wish that your daughter were far poorer than I am.I
can say little more than that I could give her a home now and every
comfort of life.I could not now provide for her the luxury to which she
has been accustomed.But I am willing to wait and eager to work.In youth
and health and a fair degree of education I have some capital in addition
to the start in life which my father has promised to his sons.What could
not Miss Hargrove inspire a man to do?"The man of experience smiled in spite of himself at Burt's frank
enthusiasm and naivete.The whole affair was so different from anything
that he had ever looked forward to!Instead of a few formalities between
himself and a wealthy suitor whom his wife, and therefore all the world,
would approve of, here he was listening to a farmer's son, with the
consciousness that he must yield, and not wholly unwilling to do so.Moreover, this preposterous young man, so far from showing any awe of
him, had almost defied him from the start, and had plainly stated that
the father's wealth was the only objection to the daughter.Having seen
the drift of events, Mr.Hargrove had long since informed himself
thoroughly about the Clifford family, and had been made to feel that the
one fact of his wealth, which Burt regretted, was almost his only claim
to superiority.Burt was as transparent as a mountain brook, and quite as
impetuous.The gray-haired man sighed, and felt that he would give all
his wealth in exchange for such youth.He knew his daughter's heart, and
felt that further parleying was vain, although he foresaw no easy task in
reconciling his wife to the match.He was far from being heartbroken
himself, however, for there was such a touch of nature in Burt, and in
the full, strong love waiting to reward the youth, that his own heart was
stirred, and in the depths of his soul he knew that this was better than
giving his child to a jaded millionaire."I have money enough for both,"
he thought."As she said, she is rich enough to follow her heart.It's a
pity if we can't afford an old-fashioned love-match."Hargrove's deep thought and
silence.At last the father arose and gave him his hand, saying: "You have been
honest with me, and that, with an old merchant, counts for a great deal.I also perceive you love my daughter for herself.If she should ever
inform me that you are essential to her happiness I shall not withhold my
consent."Burt seized his hand with a grasp that made it ache, as he said, "Every
power I have, sir, shall be exerted that you may never regret this
kindness.""If you make good that promise, Mr.Clifford, I shall become your friend
should your wooing prove successful.If you will come to the parlor I
will tell Miss Hargrove that you are here."He went up the stairs slowly, feeling that he was crossing the threshold
of a great change.How many thoughts passed through his mind as he took
those few steps!He saw his child a little black-eyed baby in his arms;
she was running before him trundling her hoop; she came to him with
contracted brow and half-tearful eyes, bringing a knotty sum in
fractions, and insisting petulantly that they were very "vulgar" indeed;
she hung on his arm, a shy girl of fifteen, blushingly conscious of the
admiring eyes that followed her; she stood before him again in her first
radiant beauty as a _debutante_, and he had dreamed of the proudest
alliance that the city could offer; she looked into his eyes, a pale,
earnest woman, and said, "Papa, he saved my life at the risk of his own."Clifford had not spoken of that, and Mr.Hargrove had not
thought of it in the interview so crowded with considerations.His heart
relented toward the youth as it had not done before.Well, well, since it
was inevitable, he was glad to be the one who should first bring the
tidings of this bold wooer's purpose."Trurie will never forget this
moment," he mattered, as he knocked at her door, "nor my part in her
little drama."O love, how it craves even the crumbs that fall from the
table of its idol!"Trurie," he began, as he entered, "you had better dress.Bless me, I
thought you were packing!"Clifford said he would call--to bid me good-by, I suppose.""Was that all you supposed, Trurie?""Indeed, papa, I told him I was going to town to-morrow, and he asked if
he might call."I'm sure it's quite natural he should call, and I have been
packing.""Well, I can assure you that he has a very definite object.He has asked
me if he might pay his addresses to you, and in the same breath assured
me that he would in any event.""Oh, papa," she said, hiding her face on his shoulder, "he was not so
unmannerly as that!""Indeed, he went much further, declaring that he would take no refusal
from you, either; or, rather, that he would take it so often as to wear
out your patience, and secure you by proving that resistance was useless.He had one decided fault to find with you, also."Oh, papa, tell me what he did say;" and he felt her heart fluttering
against his side like that of a frightened bird."Why, Trurie, men have offered you love before.""But I never loved before, nor knew what it meant," she whispered.This is all so strange, so sacred to
me.""Well, Trurie, I hope your match may be one of those that are made in
heaven.Your mother will think it anything but worldly wise.However, I
will reconcile her to it, and I'm glad to be the one with whom you will
associate this day.Long after I am gone it may remind you how dear your
happiness was to me, and that I was willing to give up my way for yours.Clifford has been straightforward and manly, if not conventional, and
I've told him that if he could win you and would keep his promise to do
his best for you and by you, I would be his friend, and that, you know,
means much.Of course, it all depends upon whether you accept him.Here is an organ"--with her hand upon her heart--"that
knows better."Oh, no, I can excuse you," he said, with smiling lips but moist eyes."Dear papa, I will, indeed, associate you with this hour and every
pleasant thing in life.You will find that you have won me anew instead
of losing me;" and looking back at him with her old filial love shining
in her eyes, she went slowly away to meet the future under the sweet
constraint of Nature's highest law.If Burt had been impatient in the library, he grew almost desperate in
the parlor.Might not Miss
Hargrove's pride rise in arms against him?Might she not even now be
telling her father of his fickleness, and declaring that she would not
listen to a "twice-told tale"?Every moment of delay seemed ominous, and
many moments passed.The house grew sepulchral in its silence, and the
wind without sighed and moaned as if Nature foreboded and pitied him in
view of the overwhelming misfortune impending.At last he sprang up and
paced the room in his deep perturbation.As he turned toward the entrance
he saw framed in the doorway a picture that appeared like a radiant
vision.Miss Hargrove stood there, looking at him so intently that, for a
second or two, he stood spell-bound.She was dressed in some white,
clinging material, and, with her brilliant eyes, appeared in the
uncertain light too beautiful and wraith-like to be human.She saw her
advantage, and took the initiative instantly.Clifford," she
exclaimed, "do I seem an apparition?""Yes, you do," he replied, coming impetuously toward her.She held out
her hand, proposing that their interview should at least begin at arm's
length.Nevertheless, the soft fire in his eyes and the flush on his
handsome face made her tremble with a delicious apprehension.Even while
at a loss to know just how to manage the preliminaries for a decorous
yielding, she exulted over the flame-like spirit of her lover.Clifford," she cried, "you ought to know that you are not
crushing a ghost's hand."What I meant was that I thought I had seen you before, but
you are a new revelation every time I see you.""Please don't say that, for I must ask you to interpret one to-night.What does Shakespeare say about those who have power?I hope you will use
yours mercifully.Oh, Miss Hargrove, you are so beautiful that I believe
I should lose my reason if you sent me away without hope."Clifford, you are talking wildly," was her faint response.I am almost desperate from fear, for I have a terribly hard
duty to perform."she said, withdrawing her hand, which he relinquished most
reluctantly, dreading that he might never receive it again."Do not assume that attitude, Miss Hargrove, or I shall lose courage
utterly."Clifford," she said, a little satirically, seating herself on
a sofa, "I never imagined you deficient in courage.Is it a terrible duty
to entertain me for a half-hour, and say good-by?"Nothing could be worse than that, if that were all;" and he looked
at her appealingly and in such perplexed distress that she laughed
outright."I am very much in earnest, Miss Hargrove.""You are very enigmatical, Mr.Must I be present while you
perform this terrible duty?""I think you know what I must confess already, and have a world of scorn
in store for me.Whatever the end may be, and my
sense of ill-desert is heavy indeed, I shall begin on the basis of
absolute truth.I've asked your father for the
privilege of winning your love;" and then he hesitated, not knowing how
to go on."No, I fear it will be the best, for he kindly gave his consent, and I
know it would be hard for him to do as much for any man, much more so for
one not wholly to his mind.Miss Hargrove, I must appear awkwardness and
incoherency personified.I shall appear to
you fickle and unmanly.How can I excuse myself to you when I have no
excuse except the downright truth that I love you better than my life,
better than my own soul, better than all the world and everything in it.I never knew what love was until you became unconscious in my arms on the
mountain.I'm only trying to explain
myself; and yet I had thought that I knew, and had spoken words of love
to your friend, Amy Winfield, who is worthy of the love of the best and
noblest man that ever breathed.She did not welcome my words--they only
wounded her--and she has never eared for me except as a true and gentle
sister cares.But I promised to wait till she did care.You fascinated me from the first hour of our meeting.I feel now
that I cherished an unworthy purpose toward you.I thought that, by
attentions to you, I could make Amy care; I thought that you were but a
brilliant society girl; but every hour I spent with you increased my
admiration, my respect; I saw that you were better and stronger than I
was.On the first day we went into camp on the mountain I saw whither my
heart was leading me, and from that hour until to-day I have tried to
conquer my love, feeling that I had no right to give it, that you would
despise it if I did.You can't have any confidence in me now.All my hope
is that you will give me a chance to prove that I am not a fickle wretch.I will accept of any probation, I will submit to any terms.I can't take
an absolute refusal now, for I feel you are seeing me at my worst, and I
know that you could do with me anything you pleased."Her head bowed lower and lower as he poured out these words like a
torrent."Does Amy--have you told her that you cannot keep your promise
to her?""Oh, yes, I told her so a few hours ago--since I met you this afternoon.I was going away to the West, like a coward, to escape from my dilemma,
for I felt you would never listen to me after you knew that I had broken
my word to Amy.I feared that I had already become a by-word between you
for all that was weak and fickle.But after I saw you I could not go till
I spoke.I determined to reveal the whole truth, and if you ever gave me
a chance to retrieve myself, gratitude would be no name for my deep
feeling.She told me in good plain English that she
wanted neither me nor my promise; that she didn't think that she ever
could have loved me, no matter how long I might have waited.But I could
not look into your clear eyes and say, 'I love you,' and know that you
might learn from her or any one that I had said this before.If you won't
trust me, having had the whole truth, then I must bear my hard fate as
best I can.""How long would you be willing to wait for me?"she asked, in tones so
low that he could scarcely catch the words.He bounded to her side, and took her unresisting hand."Oh, Gertrude," he
pleaded, "prove me, give me a chance, let me show that I am not without
manhood and constancy.Believe me, I know the priceless gift I'm asking,
but what else can I do?I have tried for weeks to conquer the feeling you
have inspired, tried with all the help that pride and sense of duty and
honor could give, but it has been utterly useless.I now am free; I have
the right to speak.At last she raised her downcast eyes and averted face to his, and for a
moment he was dazed at their expression.In tones sweet, low, and deep
with her strong emotion, she said, "Burt, how glad I am that you men are
blind!I found out that I loved you before we went to our mountain camp."She sprang up and gave him her other hand as she continued: "Can love
impose such hard conditions as you suggest--months of doubtful waiting
for one who risked his life for me without a second's hesitation?That is
not my nature, Burt.If I have power over you, I shall show it in another
way."She would never forget his look as he listened to these words, nor his
humility as he lowered his head upon her shoulder, and murmured, "I am
not worthy of this."It touched the deepest and tenderest chord in her
heart.His feeling was not the exultation of success, but a gratitude too
deep for words, and a half-conscious appeal that she would use her
woman's power to evoke a better manhood.It was not mere acknowledgment
of her beauty, or the impulse of his passion; it was homage to the best
and noblest part of her nature, the expression of his absolute trust.Never had she received such a tribute, and she valued it more than if
Burt had laid untold wealth at her feet.A great joy is often as sobering as a great sorrow, and they talked long
and earnestly together.Gertrude would not become engaged until she had
told her mother, and shown her the respect that was her due."You must
not be resentful," the young girl said, "if mamma's consent is not easily
won.She has set her heart on an establishment in town, I've set my heart
on you; so there we differ, and you must give me time to reconcile her to
a different programme."The clock on the mantel chimed eleven, and Burt started up, aghast at the
flight of time.Gertrude stole to her father's library, and found that he
was pacing the floor."I should not have left him alone so long
to-night," she thought, with compunction."Papa," she said, "Mr.He looked into his daughter's flushed, happy face, and needed no further
explanation, and with her hands on his arm he went to the drawing-room.Burt said but few and very simple words, and the keen judge of men liked
him beter than if he had been more exuberant.There was evidence of
downright earnestness now that seemed a revelation of a new trait."You spoke of going to the West soon," Mr.Hargrove remarked, as they
lingered in parting."Have you any objection to telling me of your
purpose?"Hargrove's face soon expressed unusual interest."I
must talk with you further about this," he said."I have land in the same
locality, and also an interest in the railroad to which you refer.Perhaps I can make your journey of mutual service.""Oh, papa," cried his daughter, "you are my good genius!"for she well
understood what that mutual service meant.Hargrove said, "Well, well, this Western-land
business puts a new aspect on the affair, and mamma may have little
ground for complaint.It's my impression that the Cliffords will realize
a very respectable fortune out of that land.""Papa," said the young girl, "Burt gave me something better than wealth
to-night--better even than love, in the usual sense of the word.He acted as if he saw in me the power to help him to be a
true man, and what higher compliment can a woman receive?He did not
express it so much by word as by an unconscious manner, that was so
sincere and unpremeditated that it thrilled my very soul.Oh, papa, you
have helped me to be so very happy!"CHAPTER LVI

WEBB'S FOUR-LEAVED CLOVER


Webb's silent entrance had not been so quiet but that Burt heard him.Scarcely had he gained his room before the younger brother knocked, and
followed him in without waiting."Where have you been at this time of
night?""You are infringing on ghostly hours, and are
beginning to look like a ghost;" for Webb had thrown himself into a
chair, and was haggard from the exhaustion of his long conflict.The
light and kindly way in which he answered his brother proved that he was
victor."Webb," said Burt, putting his hand on the elder brother's shoulder, "you
saved my life last winter, and life has become of immense value to me.If
you had not found me, I should have missed a happiness that falls to the
lot of few--a happiness of which all your science can never give you, you
old delver, even an idea.I meant to tell mother and father first, but I
feel to-night how much I owe to your brave, patient search, and I want
your congratulations.""I think you might have told father and mother last night, for I suppose
it's morning now.""I did not get home in time, and did not wish to excite mother, and spoil
her rest.""Well, then, you might have come earlier or gone later.I think not, if you know all about what I didn't know, and
could scarcely believe possible myself, till an hour or two since."I think you might have stayed at home
with Amy to-night, of all times.An accident, Burt, revealed to me your
success, and I do congratulate you most sincerely.You have now the
truest and loveliest girl in the world.""That's true, but what possible accident could have revealed the fact to
you?""Don't think I was spying upon you.From the top of a ladder in the
orchard I saw, as the result of a casual glance, your reward to Amy for
words that must have been very satisfactory."Burt began to laugh as if he could not control himself."What a surprise
I have for you all!""I went where I did last night with Amy's
full knowledge and consent.She never cared a rap for me, but the only
other girl in the world who is her equal does, and her name is Gertrude
Hargrove."Webb gave a great start, and sank into a chair."Don't be so taken aback, old fellow.I suppose you and the rest had set
your hearts on my marrying Amy.You have only to follow Amy's example,
and give me your blessing.Yes, you saw me give Amy a very grateful and
affectionate greeting last evening.She's the dearest little sister that
ever a man had, and that's all she ever wanted to be to me.I felt
infernally mean when I came to her yesterday, for I was in an awkward
strait.I had promised to wait for her till she did care, but she told me
that there was no use in waiting, and I don't believe there would have
been.She would have seen some one in the future who would awaken a very
different feeling from any that I could inspire, and then, if she had
promised herself to me, she would have been in the same predicament that
I was.She is the best and most sensible little girl that ever breathed,
and feels toward me just as she does toward you, only she very justly
thinks you have forgotten more than lever knew.As for Gertrude--Hang it
all!You'll say I'm at my old
tricks, but I'm not.You've seen how circumstances have brought us
together, and I tell you my eye and heart are filled now for all time.She will be over to-morrow, and I want her to receive the greeting she
deserves."The affair seemed of such tremendous importance to Burt that he was not
in the least surprised that Webb was deeply moved, and fortunately he
talked long enough to give his brother time to regain his self-control.Webb did congratulate him in a way that was entirely satisfactory, and
then bundled him out of the room in the most summary manner, saying,
"Because you are a hare-brained lover, you shouldn't keep sane people
awake any longer."It were hard to say, however, who was the less sane
that night, Webb or Burt.The former threw open his window, and gazed at
the moonlit mountains in long, deep ecstasy.Unlike Burt's, his more
intense feeling would find quiet expression.All he knew was that there
was a chance for him--that he had the right to put forth the best effort
of which he was capable--and he thanked God for that.At the same time he
remembered Amy's parable of the rose.He would woo as warily as
earnestly.With Burt's experience before his eyes, he would never stun
her with sudden and violent declarations.His love, like sunshine, would
seek to develop the flower of her love.He was up and out in the October dawn, too happy and excited for sleep.His weariness was gone; his sinews seemed braced with steel as he strode
to a lofty eminence.No hue on the richly tinted leaves nor on the rival
chrysanthemums was brighter than his hope, and the cool, pure air, in
which there was as yet no frostiness, was like exhilarating wine.From
the height he looked down on his home, the loved casket of the more
dearly prized jewel.He viewed the broad acres on which he had toiled,
remembering with a dull wonder that once he had been satisfied with their
material products.Now there was a glamour upon them, and upon all the
landscape.The river gleamed and sparkled; the mountains flamed like the
plumage of some tropical bird.The earth and
his old materiality became the foundation-stones on which his awakened
mind, kindled and made poetic, should rear an airy, yet enduring,
structure of beauty, consecrated to Amy.He had loved nature before, but
it had been to him like a palace in which, as a dull serving-man, he had
employed himself in caring for its furniture and the frames of its
paintings.But he had been touched by a magic wand, and within the frames
glowed ever-changing pictures, and the furniture was seen to be the work
of divine art.The palace was no longer empty, but enshrined a living
presence, a lovely embodiment of Nature's purest and best manifestation.The development of no flower in all the past summer was so clear to him
as that of the girl he loved.He felt as if he had known her thoughts
from childhood.Her young womanhood was like that of the roses he had
shown to her in the dewy June dawn that seemed so long ago.It was still like a bud of his favorite
mossrose, wrapped in its green calyx.Oh, what a wealth of fragrant
beauty would be revealed!But she should
waken in her own time; and if he had not the power to impart the deep,
subtile impulse, then that nearest to her, Nature, should be his bride.They were all at the breakfast-table when he returned, and this plotter
against Amy's peace entered and greeted her with a very quiet
"Good-morning," but he laid beside her plate a four-leaved clover which
he had espied on his way back."Thanks, Webb," she said, with eyes full of merriment; "I foresee an
amazing amount of good luck in this little emblem.Indeed, I feel sure
that startling proofs of it will occur to-day;" and she looked
significantly at Burt, who laughed very consciously."What mischief has Burt been up to, Amy?""He was
ready to explode with suppressed something last evening at supper, and
now he is effervescing in somewhat different style, but quite as
remarkably.You boys needn't think you can hide anything from mother very
long; she knows you too well."Both Webb and Burt, with Amy, began to laugh, and they looked at each
other as if there were a good deal that mother did not know."Webb and Amy have evidently some joke on Burt," remarked Leonard."Webb
was out last night, and I bet a pippin he caught Burt flirting with Miss
Hargrove.""Burt is going to settle down now and be
steady.We'll make him sign a pledge before he goes West, won't we, Amy?""Yes, indeed," gasped Amy, almost beside herself with merriment; "he'll
have to sign one in big capitals.""Burt," said his father, looking at him over his spectacles, "you've been
getting yourself into some scrape as sure as the world.That's right,
Amy; you laugh at him well, and--"

"A truce!""If I'm in a scrape, I don't propose to get
out of it, but rather to make you all share in it.As Amy says, her
four-leaved clover will prove a true prophet, green as it looks.I now
beg off, and shall prove that my scrape has not spoiled my appetite.""Well," said Leonard, "I never could find any four-leaved clovers, but
I've had good luck, haven't I, Maggie?""You had indeed, when you came courting me.""I am satisfied," began Webb, "that I could develop acres of four-leaved
clover.I have counted twenty-odd on
one root.If seed from such a plant were sown, and then seed selected
again from the new plants most characterized by this'sport,' I believe
the trait would become fixed, and we could have a field of four-leaved
clover.New varieties of fruits, vegetables, and flowers are often thus
developed from chance'sports' or abnormal specimens.""He would turn this ancient symbol of fortune
into a marketable commodity.""Pardon me; I was saying what might be done, not what I proposed to do.I
found this emblem of good chance by chance, and I picked it with the
'wish' attacked to the stem.Thus to the utmost I have honored the
superstition, and you have only to make your wish to carry it out fully.""My wishes are in vain, and all the four-leaved clovers in the world
wouldn't help them.I wish I was a scientific problem, a crop that
required great skill to develop, a rare rose that all the rose-maniacs
were after, a new theory that required a great deal of consideration and
investigation, and accompanied with experiments that needed much
observation, and any number of other t-i-o-n-shuns.Then I shouldn't be
left alone evenings by the great inquiring mind of the family.Burt's
going away, and, as his father says, has got into a scrape; so what's to
become of me?"They all arose from the table amid general laughter, of which Webb and
Burt were equally the objects, and on the faces of those not in the
secret there was much perplexed curiosity.exclaimed Maggie, "if Webb should concentrate his mind
on you as you suggest, it would end by his falling in love with you."This speech was received with shouts of merriment, and Amy felt the color
rushing into her face, but she scouted the possibility."The idea of
Webb's falling in love with any one!""I should as soon expect
to see old Storm King toppling over.""Still waters run--" began Maggie, but a sudden flash from Webb's eyes
checked her."Some still waters don't run at all.Not
for the world would I have Webb incur the dreadful risk that you suggest.""I think I'm almost old enough to take care of myself, sister Amy, and I
promise you to try to be as entertaining as such an old fellow can be.As
to falling in love with you, that happened long ago--the first evening
you came, when you stood in the doorway blushing and frightened at the
crowd of your new relations.""Haven't I got over being afraid of them remarkably?I never was a bit
afraid of you even at first.It took me a long time, however, to find out
how learned you were, and what deep subjects are required to interest
you.Alas, I shall never be a deep subject."Clifford, putting his arm around her, "you have
come like sunshine into the old home, and we old people can't help
wishing you may never go out of it while we are alive.""I'm not a bit jealous, Amy," said Maggie."I think it's time this mutual admiration society broke up," the young
girl said, with tears trembling in her eyes."When I think of it all, and
what a home I've found, I'm just silly enough to cry.I think it's time,
Burt, that you obtained your father's and mother's forgiveness or
blessing, or whatever it is to be.""You are right, Amy, as you always are.and
if you will accompany us, sir (to his father), you shall learn the
meaning of Amy's four-leaved clover.""You needn't think you are going to get Amy without my consent," Leonard
called after him."I've known her longer than any of you--ever since she
was a little girl at the depot."Amy and Webb began laughing so heartily at the speaker that he went away
remarking that he could pick apples if he couldn't solve riddles."Come up to my room, Amy," said Maggie, excitedly."No, no, Mother Eve, I shall go to my own room, and dress for company.""Burt said something more than
good-by to Miss Hargrove last evening."Amy would not answer, and the sound of a mirthful snatch of song died
musically away in the distance.Webb," Maggie resumed, "what did _you_ mean by that ominous
flash from your cavern-like eyes?""It meant that Amy has probably been satisfied with one lover in the
family and its unexpected result.I don't wish our relations embarrassed
by the feeling that she must be on her guard against another.""Oh, I see, you don't wish her to be on her guard.""Dear Maggie, whatever you may see, appear blind.Heaven only knows what
you women don't see."I've suspected you for
some time, but thought Burt and Amy were committed to each other.""Amy does not suspect anything, and she must not.She is not ready for
the knowledge, and may never be.All the help I ask is to keep her
unconscious.I've been expecting you would find me out, for you married
ladies have had an experience which doubles your insight, and I'm glad of
the chance to caution you.Amy is happy in loving me as a brother.She
shall never be unhappy in this home if I can prevent it."Maggie entered heart and soul into Webb's cause, for he was a great
favorite with her.He was kind to her children, and in a quiet way taught
them almost as much as they learned at school.He went to his work with
mind much relieved, for she and his mother were the only ones that he
feared might surmise his feeling, and by manner or remark reveal it to
Amy, thus destroying their unembarrassed relations, and perhaps his
chance to win the girl's heart.CHAPTER LVII

OCTOBER HUES AND HARVESTS


Burt's interview with his parents, their mingled surprise, pleasure, and
disappointment, and their deep sympathy, need not be dwelt upon.Clifford was desirous of first seeing Amy, and satisfying himself that
she did not in the slightest degree feel herself slighted or treated in
bad faith, but his wife, with her low laugh, said: "Rest assured, father,
Burt is right.He has won nothing more from Amy than sisterly love,
though I had hoped that he might in time.We shall keep Amy, and gain a new daughter that we have already learned
to admire and love."Burt's mind was too full of the one great theme to remember what Mr.Hargrove had said about the Western land, and when at last Miss Hargrove
came to say good-by, with a blushing consciousness quite unlike her usual
self-possession, he was enchanted anew, and so were all the household.The old people's reception seemed like a benediction; Amy banished the
faintest trace of doubt by her mirthful ecstasies; and after their
mountain experience there was no ice to break between Gertrude and
Maggie.The former was persuaded to defer her trip to New York until the morrow,
and so Amy would have her nutting expedition after all.When Leonard came
down to dinner, Burt took Gertrude's hand, and said, "Now, Len, this is
your only chance to give your consent.You can't have any dinner till you
do."His swift, deprecating look at Amy's laughing face reassured him."Well,"
he said, slowly, as if trying to comprehend it all, "I do believe I'm
growing old.When _did_ all this take
place?""Your eyesight is not to blame, Leonard," said his wife, with much
superiority."It's because you are only a man.""That's all I ever pretended to be."Then, with a dignity that almost
surprised Gertrude, he, as eldest brother, welcomed her in simple,
heartfelt words.At the dinner-table Miss Hargrove referred to the Western land.Burt laid
down his knife and fork, and exclaimed, "I declare, I forgot all about
it!"Miss Hargrove laughed heartily as she said, "A high tribute to me!"and
then made known her father's statement that the Clifford tract in the
West adjoined his own, that it would soon be very valuable, and that he
was interested in the railroad approaching it."I left him," she
concluded, "poring over his maps, and he told me to say to you, sir" (to
Mr.Clifford), "that he wished to see you soon.""How about the four-leaved clover now?"In the afternoon they started for the chestnut-trees.Webb carried a light
ladder, and both he and Burt had dressed themselves in close-fitting
flannel suits for climbing.The orchard, as they passed through it,
presented a beautiful autumn picture.Great heaps of yellow and red cheeked
apples were upon the ground; other varieties were in barrels, some headed
up and ready for market, while Mr.Clifford was giving the final cooperage
to other barrels as fast as they were filled."Father can still head up a barrel better than any of us," Leonard
remarked to Miss Hargrove."Well, my dear," said the old gentleman, "I've had over half a century's
experience.""It's time I obtained some idea of rural affairs," said Gertrude to Webb."There seem to be many different kinds of apples here."Yes, as easily as you know different dress fabrics at Arnold's.Those
umbrella-shaped trees are Rhode Island greenings; those that are rather
long and slender branching are yellow bell-flowers; and those with short
and stubby branches and twigs are the old-fashioned dominies.Don't you see how green the fruit is?It will not be
in perfection till next March.Not only a summer, but an autumn and a
winter are required to perfect that superb apple, but then it becomes one
of Nature's triumphs.Some of those heaps on the ground will furnish
cider and vinegar.Nuts, cider, and a wood fire are among the privations
of a farmer's life.""Farming, as you carry it on, appears to me a fine art.How very full
some of the trees are!and others look as if they had been half picked
over."The largest and ripest apples are taken
off first, and the rest of the fruit improves wonderfully in two or three
weeks.By this course we greatly increase both the quality and the bulk
of the crop.""You are very happy in your calling, Webb.How strange it seems for me to
be addressing you as Webb!""It does not seem so strange to me; nor does it seem strange that I am
talking to you in this way.I soon recognized that you were one of those
fortunate beings in whom city life had not quenched nature."They had fallen a little behind the others, and were out of ear-shot."I think," she said, hesitatingly and shyly, "that I had an ally in you
all along."He laughed and replied, "At one time I was very dubious over my
expedition to Fort Putnam.""I imagine that in suggesting that expedition you put in two words for
yourself.""I wish you might be as happy as I am.I'm not blind either, and I wonder
that Amy is so unconscious.""I hope she will remain so until she awakens as naturally as from sleep.She has never had a brother, and as such I try to act toward her.My one
thought is her happiness, and, perhaps, I can secure it in no other way.I feared long since that you had guessed my secret, and am grateful that
you have not suggested it to Amy.Few would have shown so much delicacy
and consideration.""I'm not sure that you are right, Webb.If Amy knew of your feeling, it
would influence her powerfully."Yes, it was necessary that she should misunderstand me, and think of me
as absorbed in things remote from her life.The knowledge you suggest
might make her very sad, for there never was a gentler-hearted girl.Please use it to prevent the constraint which might
arise between us."Burt now joined them with much pretended jealousy, and they soon reached
the trees, which, under the young men's vigorous blows, rained down the
prickly burrs, downy chestnuts, and golden leaves.Blue jays screamed
indignantly from the mountain-side, and squirrels barked their protest at
the inroads made upon their winter stores.As the night approached the
air grew chilly, and Webb remarked that frost was coming at last.He
hastened home before the others to cover up certain plants that might be
sheltered through the first cold snap.The tenderer ones had long since
been taken up and prepared for winter blooming.To Amy's inquiry where Johnnie was, Maggie had replied that she had gone
nutting by previous engagement with Mr.Alvord, and as the party returned
in the glowing evening they met the oddly assorted friends with their
baskets well filled.In the eyes of the recluse there was a gentler
expression, proving that Johnnie's and Nature's ministry had not been
wholly in vain.He glanced swiftly from Burt to Miss Hargrove, then at
Amy, and a faint suggestion of a smile hovered about his mouth.He was
about to leave them abruptly when Johnnie interposed, pleading: "Mr.Alvord, don't go home till I pick you some of your favorite heart's-ease,
as you call my <DW29>s.They have grown to be as large and beautiful as
they were last spring.Do you know, in the hot weather they were almost
as small as johnny-jumpers?but I wouldn't let 'em be called by that
name.""They will ever be heart's-ease to me, Johnnie-doubly so when you give
them," and he followed her to the garden.In the evening a great pitcher of cider fresh from the press, flanked by
dishes of golden fall pippins and grapes, was placed on the table.The
young people roasted chestnuts on hickory coals, and every one, even to
the invalid, seemed to glow with a kindred warmth and happiness.The city
belle contrasted the true home-atmosphere with the grand air of a city
house, and thanked God for her choice.At an early hour she said good-by
for a brief time and departed with Burt.He was greeted with stately
courtesy by Mrs.Hargrove herself, whom her husband and the prospective
value of the Western land had reconciled to the momentous event.Burt and
Gertrude were formally engaged, and he declared his intention of
accompanying her to the city to procure the significant diamond.After the culminating scenes of Burt's little drama, life went on very
serenely and quietly at the Clifford home.Out of school hours Alf,
Johnnie, and Ned vied with the squirrels in gathering their hoard of
various nuts.The boughs in the orchard grew lighter daily.Frost came as
Webb had predicted, and dahlias, salvias, and other flowers, that had
flamed and glowed till almost the middle of October, turned black in one
morning's sun.The butternut-trees had lost their foliage, and countless
leaves were fluttering down in every breeze like many-hued gems.The
richer bronzed colors of the oak were predominating in the landscape, and
only the apple, cherry, and willow trees about the house kept up the
green suggestion of summer.CHAPTER LVIII

THE MOONLIGHT OMEN


Webb permitted no marked change in his manner.He toiled steadily with
Leonard in gathering the fall produce and in preparing for winter, but
Amy noticed that his old preoccupied look was passing away.Daily he
appeared to grow more genial and to have more time and thought for her.With increasing wonder she learned the richness and fulness of his mind.In the evenings he read aloud to them all with his strong, musical
intonation, in which the author's thought was emphasized so clearly that
it seemed to have double the force that it possessed when she read the
same words herself.He found time for occasional rambles and horseback
excursions, and was so companionable during long rainy days that they
seemed to her the brightest of the week.Maggie smiled to herself and saw
that Webb's spell was working.He was making himself so quietly and
unobtrusively essential to Amy that she would find half of her life gone
if she were separated from him.Gertrude returned for a short time, and then went to the city for the
winter.He was much in New York, and
often with Mr.Hargrove, from whom he was receiving instructions in
regard to his Western expedition.That gentleman's opinion of Burt's
business capacity grew more favorable daily, for the young fellow now
proposed to show that he meant to take life in earnest."If this lasts he
will make a trusty young lieutenant," the merchant thought, "and I can
make his fortune while furthering mine."Burt had plenty of brains and
good executive ability to carry out the wiser counsels of others, while
his easy, vivacious manner won him friends and acceptance everywhere.It was arranged, after his departure, that Amy should visit her friend in
the city, and Webb looked forward to her absence with dread and
self-depreciation, fearing that he should suffer by contrast with the
brilliant men of society, and that the quiet country life would seem
dull, indeed, thereafter.Before Amy went on this visit there came an Indian summer morning in
November, that by its soft, dreamy beauty wooed every one out of doors."Amy," said Webb, after dinner, "suppose we drive over to West Point and
return by moonlight."She was delighted with the idea, and they were soon
slowly ascending the mountain.He felt that this was his special
opportunity, not to break her trustful unconsciousness, but to reveal his
power to interest her and make impressions that should be enduring.He
exerted every faculty to please, recalling poetic and legendary allusions
connected with the trees, plants, and scenes by which they were passing."Oh, Webb, how you idealize nature!""You make every object
suggest something fanciful, beautiful, or entertaining.How have you
learned to do it?""As I told you last Easter Sunday--how long ago it seems--if I have any
power for such idealization it is largely through your influence.My
knowledge was much like the trees as they then appeared.I was prepared
for better things, but the time for them had not yet come.I had studied
the material world in a material sort of way, employing my mind with
facts that were like the bare branches and twigs.You awakened in me a
sense of the beautiful side of nature.Who can
explain the rapid development of foliage and flowers when all is ready?""But, Webb, you appeared, during the summer, to go back to your old
materiality worse than ever.You made me feel that I had no power to do
anything for you.You treated me as if I were your very little sister who
would have to go to school a few years before I could be your companion.""Those were busy days," he replied, laughing."Besides," he added,
hesitatingly, "Burt was at one time inclined to be jealous.Of course, it
was very absurd in him, but I suppose lovers are always a little absurd."I saw whither Burt was drifting long
ago--at the time of the great flood which swept away things of more value
than my silly expectations.What an unsophisticated little goose I was!I
suppose Johnnie expects to be married some day, and in much the same way
I looked forward to woman's fate; and since you all seemed to wish that
it should be Burt, I thought, 'Why not?'Wasn't it lucky for Burt, and,
indeed, for all of you, that I was not a grown-up and sentimental young
woman?Hargrove, by uniting his interests with yours in the West,
will make your fortunes, and Burt will bring you a lovely sister.It
pleases me to see how Gertrude is learning to like you.I used to be
provoked with her at first, because she didn't appreciate you.Do you
know, I think you ought to write?You could make people fall in love with
nature.Americans don't care half as much for out-door life and pursuits
as the English.It seems to me that city life cannot compare with that of
the country.""You may think differently after you have been a few weeks in Gertrude's
elegant home."They had paused again on the brow of Cro' Nest, and were looking out on
the wide landscape."No, Webb," she said; "her home, no doubt, is
elegant, but it is artificial.This is simple and grand, and to-day, seen
through the soft haze, is lovely to me beyond all words.I honestly half
regret that I am going to town.Of course, I shall enjoy myself--I always
do with Gertrude--but the last few quiet weeks have been so happy and
satisfying that I dread any change.""Think of the awful vacuum that your absence will make in the old home!""Well, I'm a little glad; I want to be missed.But I shall write to you
and tell you of all the frivolous things we are doing.Besides, you must
come to see me as often as you can."They saw evening parade, the moon rising meanwhile over Sugarloaf
Mountain, and filling the early twilight with a soft radiance.The music
seemed enchanting, for their hearts were attuned to it.As the long line
of cadets shifted their guns from "carry arms" to "shoulder arms" with
instantaneous action, Webb said that the muskets sent out a shivering
sound like that of a tree almost ready to fall under the last blows of an
axe.Webb felt that should he exist millions of ages he should never forget the
ride homeward.The moon looked through the haze like a veiled beauty, and
in its softened light Amy's pure, sweet profile was endowed with ethereal
beauty.The beech trees, with their bleached leaves still clinging to them,
were almost spectral, and the oaks in their bronzed foliage stood like
black giants by the roadside.There were suggestive vistas of light and
shadow that were full of mystery, making it easy to believe that on a night
like this the mountain was haunted by creatures as strange as the fancy
could shape.The supreme gift of a
boundless love overflowed his heart to his very lips.She was so near, and
the spell of her loveliness so strong, that at times he felt that he must
give it expression, but he ever restrained himself.His words might bring
pain and consternation to the peaceful face.She was alone with him, and
there would be no escape should he speak now.No; he had resolved to wait
till her heart awoke by its own impulses, and he would keep his purpose
even through the witchery of that moonlight drive."How strangely isolated
we are," he thought, "that such feeling as mine can fill my very soul with
its immense desire, and she not be aware of anything but my quiet,
fraternal manner!"As they were descending the home <DW72> of the mountain they witnessed a
rare and beautiful sight.A few light clouds had gathered around the
moon, and these at last opened in a rift.The rays of light through the
misty atmosphere created the perfect colors of a rainbow, and this
phenomenon took the remarkable form of a shield, its base resting upon
one cloud, and its point extending into a little opening in the cloud
above."Was there ever anything so
strange and lovely?"Webb checked his horse, and they looked at the vision with wonder."I
never saw anything to equal that," said Webb.she asked, turning a little from him that she
might look upward, and leaning on his shoulder with the unconsciousness
of a child."Let us make it one, dear sister Amy," he said, drawing her nearer to
him."Let it remind you, as you recall it, that as far as I can I will
ever shield you from every evil of life."As he spoke the rainbow colors
became wonderfully distinct, and then faded slowly away.Her head drooped
lower on his shoulder, and she said, dreamily:

"It seems to me that I never was so happy before in my life as I am now.You are so different, and can be so much to me, now that your old absurd
constraint is gone.Oh, Webb, you used to make me so unhappy!You made me
feel that you had found me out--how little I knew, and that it was a bore
to have to talk with me and explain.I went everywhere with papa, and he always appeared to think
of me as a little girl.And then during the last year or two of his life
he was so ill that I did not do much else than watch over him with fear
and trembling, and try to nurse him and beguile the hours that were so
full of pain and weakness.But I'm not contented to be ignorant, and you
can teach me so much.I fairly thrill with excitement and feeling
sometimes when you are reading a fine or beautiful thing.If I can feel
that way I can't be stupid, can I?""Think how much faster I could learn this winter if you would direct my
reading, and explain what is obscure!""I will very gladly do anything you wish.There is a stupidity of heart which is
far worse than that of the mind, a selfish callousness in regard to
others and their rights and feelings, which mars the beauty of some women
worse than physical deformity.From the day you entered our home as a
stranger, graceful tact, sincerity, and the impulse of ministry have
characterized your life.Can you imagine that mere cleverness, trained
mental acuteness, and a knowledge of facts can take the place of these
traits?No man can love unless he imagines that a woman has these
qualities, and bitter will be his disappointment if he finds them
wanting."Her laugh rang out musically on the still air."I believe you have constructed an ideally perfect
creature out of nature, and that you hold trysts with her on moonlight
nights, you go out to walk so often alone.Well, well, I won't be jealous
of such a sister-in-law, but I want to keep you a little while longer
before you follow Burt's example.""I shall never give you a sister-in-law, Amy.""You don't know what you'll do.If you ever love, it will be for always; and I don't
like to think of it.I'd like to keep you just as you are.Now that you
see how selfish I am, where is woman's highest charm?"Webb laughed, and urged his horse into a sharp trot."I am unchangeable
in my opinions too, as far as you are concerned," he remarked."She is
not ready yet," was his silent thought.When she came down to the late supper her eyes were shining with
happiness, and Maggie thought the decisive hour had come; but in answer
to a question about the drive, Amy said, "I couldn't have believed that
so much enjoyment was to be had in one afternoon.Webb is a brother worth
having, and I'm sorry I'm going to New York.""Oh, you are excellent, as far as you go, but you are so wrapped up in
Maggie that you are not of much account; and as for Burt, he is more over
head and ears than you are.Even if a woman was in love, I should think
she would like a man to be sensible."you don't know what you are talking About," said Maggie.I suppose it is a kind of disease, and that all are more
or less out of their heads.""We've been out of our heads a good many years, mother, haven't we?""Well," said Leonard, "I just hope Amy will catch the disease, and have
it very bad some day."When I do, I'll send for Dr.A few days later Webb took her to New York, and left her with her friend."Don't be persuaded into staying very long," he found opportunity to say,
in a low tone."Indeed I won't; I'm homesick already;" and she looked after him very
wistfully.Gertrude looked so hurt and disappointed
when she spoke of returning, and had planned so much, that days
lengthened into weeks.CHAPTER LIX

THE HOSE REVEALS ITS HEART


Webb returned to a region that was haunted.Wherever he went, a presence
was there before him.In every room, on the lawn, in the garden, in lanes
no longer shaded, but carpeted with brown, rustling leaves, on mountain
roads, he saw Amy with almost the vividness of actual vision, as he had
seen her in these places from the time of her first coming.At church he
created her form in her accustomed seat, and his worship was a little
confused.She had asked him to write, and he made home life and the
varying aspects of nature real to her.His letters, however, were so
impersonal that she could read the greater part of them to Gertrude, who
had resolved to be pleased out of good-will to Webb, and with the
intention of aiding his cause.But she soon found herself expressing
genuine wonder and delight at their simple, vigorous diction, their
subtile humor, and the fine poetic images they often suggested."Oh,
Amy," she said, "I couldn't have believed it.I don't think he himself is
aware of his power of expression.""He has read and observed so much," Amy replied, "that he has much to
express.""It's more than that," said Gertrude; "there are touches here and there
which mere knowledge can't account for.They have a delicacy and beauty
which seem the result of woman's influence, and I believe it is yours.I
should think you would be proud of him.""I am," she answered, with exultation and heightened color, "but it seems
absurd to suppose that such a little ignoramus as I am can help him
much."Meanwhile, to all appearance, Webb maintained the even tenor of his way.He had been so long schooled in patience that he waited and hoped on in
silence as before, and busied himself incessantly.The last of the corn
was husked, and the golden treasure stored.The stalks were stacked near
the barn for winter use, and all the labors of the year were rounded out
and completed.Twice he went to the city to see Amy, and on one of these
occasions he was a guest at a large party given in her honor.During much
of the evening he was dazzled by her beauty, and dazed by her
surroundings.Her father had had her instructed carefully in dancing, and
she and Burt had often waltzed together, but he could scarcely believe
his eyes as she appeared on the floor unsurpassed in beauty and grace,
her favor sought by all.Was that the simple girl who on the shaggy sides
of Storm King had leaned against his shoulder?Miss Hargrove gave him little time for such musings.She, as hostess,
often took his arm and made him useful.The ladies found him reserved
rather than shy, but he was not long among the more mature and thoughtful
men present before a knot gathered around him, and some of Mr.Hargrove's
more intimate friends ventured to say, "There seems to be plenty of
brains in the family into which your daughter is to enter."After an hour or two had passed, and Amy had not had a chance to speak to
him, he began to look so disconsolate that she came and whispered,
"What's the matter, old fellow?""Oh, Amy," he replied, discontentedly, "I wish we were back on Storm
King."So do I," she said, "and so we will be many a time again.But you are
not out of place here.I heard one lady remarking how'reserved and
_distingue_ you were, and another," she added, with a flash of her
ever-ready mirthfulness, "said you were 'deliciously homely.'I was just
delighted with that compliment," and she flitted away to join her partner
in the dance.Webb brightened up amazingly after this, and before he
departed in the "wee sma' hours," when the rooms were empty, Gertrude
gave him a chance for a brief, quiet talk, which proved that Amy's heart
was still in the Highlands, even if he did not yet possess it.Burt would not return till late in December; but Amy came home about the
middle of the month, and received an ovation that was enough "to turn any
one's head," she declared.Their old quiet life was resumed, and Webb
watched keenly for any discontent with it."I've had my little fling," she said, "and I suppose it was
time I saw more of the world and society, but oh, what a refuge and haven
of rest the old place is!Gertrude is lovely, her father very gallant and
polite, but Mrs.Hargrove's stateliness oppresses me, and in society I
felt that I had to take a grain of salt with everything said to me.Gertrude showed her sense in preferring a home.I was in some superb
houses in the city that did not seem like homes."Webb, in his solicitude that the country-house should not appear dull,
found time to go out with her on pleasant days, and to interest her
deeply in a course of reading.It was a season of leisure; but his mother
began to smile to herself as she saw how absorbed he was in his pupil.The nights grew colder, the stars gained a frosty glitter, the ground was
rock-like, and the ponds were covered with a glare of black ice.Amy was
eager to learn to skate, and Webb found his duty of instructor
delightful.Little danger of her falling, although, with a beginner's
awkwardness, she essayed to do so often; strong arms were ever near and
ready, and any one would have been glad to catch Amy in such peril.They were now looking forward to Burt's return and the holiday season,
which Gertrude would spend with them.Not merely the shops, but busy and stealthy fingers, would furnish the
gifts.Webb had bought his present for Amy, but had also burned the
midnight oil in the preparation of another--a paper for a magazine, and
it had been accepted.He had planned and composed it while at work
stripping the husks from the yellow corn, superintending the wood teams
and the choppers in the mountain, and aiding in cutting from an adjacent
pond the crystal blocks of ice--the stored coolness for the coming
summer.Then while others thought him sleeping he wrote and rewrote the
thoughts he had harvested during the day.One of his most delightful tasks, however, was in aiding Amy to embower
the old house in wreaths and festoons of evergreens.The rooms grew into
aromatic bowers.Autumn leaves and ferns gave to the heavier decorations
a light, airy beauty which he had never seen before.Grace itself Amy
appeared as she mounted the step-ladder and reached here and there,
twining and coaxing everything into harmony.What was the effect of all this companionship on her mind?She least of
all could have answered: she did not analyze.She was being carried forward on a shining tide of happiness, and
yet its motion was so even, quiet, and strong that there was nothing to
disturb her maidenly serenity.If Webb had been any one but Webb, and if
she had been in the habit of regarding all men as possible admirers, she
would have understood herself long before this.If she had been brought
up with brothers in her own home she would have known that she welcomed
this quiet brother with a gladness that had a deeper root than sisterly
affection.But the fact that he was Webb, the quiet, self-controlled man
who had called her sister Amy for a year, made his presence, his deep
sympathy with her and for her, seem natural.His approaches had been so
gradual that he was stealing into her heart as spring enters a flower.You can never name the first hour of its presence; you take no note of
the imperceptible yet steady development.The process is quiet, yet vital
and sure, and at last there comes an hour when the bud is ready to open.That time was near, and Webb hoped that it was.His tones were now and
then so tender and gentle that she looked at him a little wonderingly,
but his manner was quiet and far removed from that of the impetuous Burt.There was a warmth in it, however, like the increasing power of the sun,
and in human hearts bleak December can be the spring-time as truly as
May.It was the twenty-third--one of the stormiest days of a stormy month.The
snowflakes were whirling without, and making many a circle in the gale
before joining their innumerable comrades that whitened the ground.The
wind sighed and soughed about the old house as it had done a year before,
but Webb and Amy were armed against its mournfulness.They were in the
parlor, on whose wide hearth glowed an ample fire.Burt and Gertrude were
expected on the evening train."Gertie is coming home through the snow just as I did," said Amy,
fastening a spray of mistletoe that a friend had sent her from England to
the chandelier; "and the same old warm welcome awaits her.""What a marvellous year it has been!"Burt is engaged to one of whose
existence he did not know a year ago.He has been out West, and found
that you have land that will make you all rich.""Are these the greatest marvels of the year, Amy?"I didn't know you a year ago to-day, and now
I seem to have known you always, you great patient, homely old
fellow--'deliciously homely.'"The eyes of scores of young fellows looked at you that evening as if you
were deliciously handsome.""And you looked at me one time as if you hadn't a friend in the world,
and you wanted to be back in your native wilds.""Not without you, Amy; and you said you wished you were looking at the
rainbow shield with me again.""Oh, I didn't say all that; and then I saw you needed heartening up a
little."You were dancing with a terrible swell, worth, it was
said, half a million, who was devouring you with his eyes.""I'm all here, thank you, and you look as if you were doing some
devouring yourself."Yes, some color, but it's just as Nature arranged it, and you know
Nature's best work always fascinates me."There, don't you think that is arranged
well?"and she stood beneath the mistletoe looking up critically at it."Let me see if it is," and he advanced to her side."This is the only
test," he said, and quick as a flash he encircled her with his arm and
pressed a kiss upon her lips.She sprang aloof and looked at him with dilating eyes.He had often
kissed her before, and she had thought nothing more of it than of a
brother's salute.Was it a subtile, mysterious power in the mistletoe
itself with which it had been endowed by ages of superstition?Was that
kiss like the final ray of the Jane sun that opens the heart of the rose
when at last it is ready to expand?She looked at him wonderingly,
tremblingly, the color of the rose mounting higher and higher, and
deepening as if the blood were coming from the depths of her heart.In answer to her wondering, questioning look, he only bent
full upon her his dark eyes that had held hers once before in a moment of
terror.She saw his secret in their depths at last, the devotion, the
love, which she herself had unsuspectingly said would "last always."She
took a faltering step toward him, then covered her burning face with her
hands."Amy," he said, taking her gently in his arms, "do you understand me now?Dear, blind little girl, I have been worshipping all these months, and
you have not known it.""I--I thought you were in love with nature," she whispered."So I am, and you are nature in its sweetest and highest embodiment.Every beautiful thing in nature has long suggested you to me.It seems to me now that I
have loved you almost from the first hour I saw you.I have known that I
loved you ever since that June evening when you left me in the rose
garden.Have I not proved that I can be patient and wait?"She only pressed her burning face closer upon his shoulder."It's all
growing clear now," she again whispered."I can be 'only your brother,' if you so wish," he said, gravely."Your
happiness is my first thought."She looked up at him shyly, tears in her eyes, and a smile hovering about
her tremulous lips."I don't think I understood myself any better than I
did you.I never had a brother, and--and--I don't believe I loved you
just right for a brother;" and her face was hidden again.His eyes went up to heaven, as if he meant that his mating should be
recognized there.Then gently stroking her brown hair, he asked, "Then I
shan't have to wait, Amy?"cried Webb, lifting the dewy, flower-like
face and kissing it again and again."Oh, I beg your pardon; I didn't know," began Mr.Clifford from the
doorway, and was about to make a hasty and excited retreat."A year ago you received this dear girl as
your daughter.She has consented to make the tie closer still if
possible."The old gentleman took Amy in his arms for a moment, and then said, "This
is too good to keep to myself for a moment," and he hastened the
blushing, laughing girl to his wife, and exclaimed, "See what I've
brought you for a Christmas present.See what that sly, silent Webb has
been up to.He has been making love to our Amy right under our noses, and
we didn't know it.""_You_ didn't know it, father; mother's eyes are not so blind.Amy,
darling, I've been hoping and praying for this.You have made a good
choice, my dear, if it is his mother that says it.Webb will never
change, and he will always be as gentle and good to you as he has been to
me.""Well, well, well," said Mr.Clifford, "our cup is running over, sure
enough.Maggie, come here," he called, as he heard her step in the hall.I once felt a little like grumbling because we
hadn't a daughter, and now I have three, and the best and prettiest in
the land."Didn't I, Webb--as long ago as last October, too?""Oh, Webb, you ought to have told me first," said Amy, reproachfully,
when they were alone."I did not tell Maggie; she saw," Webb answered.Then, taking a rosebud
which she had been wearing, he pushed open the petals with his finger,
and asked, "Who told me that 'this is no way for a flower to bloom'?I've
watched and waited till your heart was ready, Amy."And so the time flew
in mutual confidences, and the past grew clear when illumined by love.said Amy, with a mingled sigh and laugh."There you were
growing as gaunt as a scarecrow, and I loving you all the time.If you had looked at Gertrude as Burt did I should
have found myself out long ago.Why hadn't you the sense to employ Burt's
tactics?""Because I had resolved that nature should be my sole ally.Was not my
kiss under the mistletoe a better way of awakening my sleeping beauty
than a stab of jealousy?""Yes, Webb, dear, patient Webb.The rainbow shield was a true omen, and I
am sheltered indeed."CHAPTER LX

CHRISTMAS LIGHTS AND SHADOWS


Leonard had long since gone to the depot, and now the chimes of his
returning bells announced that Burt and Gertrude were near.To them both
it was in truth a coming home.Gertrude rushed in, followed by the
exultant Burt, her brilliant eyes and tropical beauty rendered tenfold
more effective by the wintry twilight without; and she received a welcome
that accorded with her nature.She was hardly in Amy's room, which she
was to share, before she looked in eager scrutiny at her friend.Oh, you little
wild-flower, you've found out that he is saying his prayers to you at
last, have you?Evidently he hasn't said them in vain.Oh, Amy darling, I was true to you and didn't
lose Burt either."Maggie had provided a feast, and Leonard beamed on the table and on every
one, when something in Webb and Amy's manner caught his attention."This
occasion," he began, "reminds me of a somewhat similar one a year ago
to-morrow night.It is my good fortune to bring lovely women into this
household.My first and best effort was made when I brought Maggie.Then
I picked up a little girl at the depot, and she grew into a tall, lovely
creature on the way home, didn't she, Johnnie?And now to-night I've
brought in a princess from the snow, and one of these days poor Webb will
be captured by a female of the MacStinger type, for he will never muster
up courage enough--What on earth are you all laughing about?""Thank you," said Amy, looking like a peony."You had better put your head under Maggie's wing and subside," Webb
added.Then, putting his arm about Amy, he asked, "Is this a female of
the MacStinger type?""Well," said he, at last, "when
_did_ this happen?When I was
courting, the whole neighborhood was talking about it, and knew I was
accepted long before I did.Did you see all this going on, Maggie?""Now, I don't believe Amy saw it herself," cried Leonard, half
desperately, and laughter broke out anew."Oh, Amy, I'm so glad!"said Burt, and he gave her the counterpart of the
embrace that had turned the bright October evening black to Webb."To think that Webb should have got such a prize!""Well, well, the boys in this family are in luck.""It will be my turn next," cried Johnnie."No, sir; I'm the oldest," Alf protested."Let's have supper," Ned remarked, removing his thumb from his mouth."Score one for Ned," said Burt."There is at least one member of the
family whose head is not turned by all these marvellous events."Can the sunshine and fragrance of a June day be photographed?No more can
the light and gladness of that long, happy evening be portrayed.Clifford held Gertrude's hand as she had Amy's when receiving her as a
daughter.The beautiful girl, whose unmistakable metropolitan air was
blended with gentle womanly grace, had a strong fascination for the
invalid.She kindled the imagination of the recluse, and gave her a
glimpse into a world she had never known."Webb," said Amy, as they were parting for the night, "I can see a sad,
pale orphan girl clad in mourning.I can see you kissing her for the
first time.I had a strange little thrill at heart
then, and you said, 'Come to me, Amy, when you are in trouble.'There is
one thing that troubles me to-night.All whom I so dearly love know of my
happiness but papa."Tell it to him, Amy," he answered, gently, "and tell it to God."There were bustle and renewed mystery on the following day.Astonishing-looking packages were smuggled from one room to another.Ned created a succession of panics, and at last the ubiquitous and
garrulous little urchin had to be tied into a chair.Johnnie and Alf
were in the seventh heaven of anticipation, and when Webb brought Amy
a check for fifty dollars, and told her that it was the proceeds of
his first crop from his brains, and that she must spend the money, she
went into Mr.Clifford's room waving it as if it were a trophy such as
no knight had ever brought to his lady-love."Of course, I'll spend it," she cried.It
shall go into books that we can read together.What's that agricultural
jargon of yours, Webb, about returning as much as possible to the soil?We'll return this to the soil," she said, kissing his forehead, "although
I think it is too rich for me already."In the afternoon she and Webb, with a sleigh well laden, drove into the
mountains on a visit to Lumley.He had repaired the rough, rocky lane
leading through the wood to what was no longer a wretched hovel.The
inmates had been expecting this visit, and Lumley rushed bareheaded
out-of-doors the moment he heard the bells.Although he had swept a path
from his door again and again, the high wind would almost instantly drift
in the snow.Poor Lumley had never heard of Sir Walter Raleigh or Queen
Elizabeth, but he had given his homage to a better queen, and with loyal
impulse he instantly threw off his coat, and laid it on the snow, that
Amy might walk dry-shod into the single room that formed his home.She
and Webb smiled significantly at each other, and then the young girl put
her hand into that of the mountaineer as he helped her from the sleigh,
and said "Merry Christmas!"with a smile that brought tears into the eyes
of the grateful man."Yer making no empty wish, Miss Amy.I never thought sich a Christmas 'ud
ever come to me or mine.But come in, come in out of the cold wind, an'
see how you've changed everything.Webb, and I'll tie
an' blanket your hoss.Lord, to think that sich a May blossom 'ud go into
my hut!"Lumley, neatly clad in some dark woollen material,
made a queer, old-fashioned courtesy that her husband had had her
practice for the occasion.But the baby, now grown into a plump, healthy
child, greeted her benefactress with nature's own grace, crowing,
laughing, and calling, "Pitty lady; nice lady," with exuberant welcome.The inmates did not now depend for precarious warmth upon two logs,
reaching across a dirty floor and pushed together, but a neat box,
painted green, was filled with billets of wood.The carpeted floor was
scrupulously clean, and so was the bright new furniture.A few evergreen
wreaths hung on the walls with the pictures that Amy had given, and on
the mantel was her photograph--poor Lumley's patron saint.Webb brought in his armful of gifts, and Amy took the child on her lap
and opened a volume of dear old "Mother Goose," profusely illustrated in
 prints--that classic that appeals alike to the hearts of
children, whether in mountain hovels or city palaces.The man looked on
as if dazed.Webb," he said, in his loud whisper, "I once saw a
picter of the Virgin and Child.Oh, golly, how she favors it!"Lumley," Amy began, "I think your housekeeping does you much
credit.I've not seen a neater room anywhere.""Well, mum, my ole man's turned over a new leaf sure nuff.There's no
livin' with him unless everythink is jesso, an, I guess it's better so,
too.Ef I let things git slack, he gits mighty savage.""You must try to be patient, Mr.You've made great changes for
the better, but you must remember that old ways can't be broken up in a
moment.""Lor' bless yer, Miss Amy, there's no think like breakin' off short,
there's nothink like turnin' the corner sharp, and fightin' the devil
tooth and nail.It's an awful tussle at first, an' I thought I was goin'
to knuckle under more'n once.So I would ef it hadn't 'a ben fer you, but
you give me this little ban', Miss Amy, an' looked at me as if I wa'n't a
beast, an' it's ben a liftin' me up ever sence.Oh, I've had good folks
talk at me an' lecter, an' I ben in jail, but it all on'y made me mad.The best on 'em wouldn't 'a teched me no more than they would a rattler,
sich as we killed on the mountain.But you guv me yer han', Miss Amy, an'
thar's mine on it agin; I'm goin' to be a _man_."She took the great horny palm in both her hands."You make me very
happy," she said, simply, looking at him above the head of his child,
"and I'm sure your wife is going to help you.I shall enjoy the holidays
far more for this visit.You've told us good news, and we've got good
news for you and your wife."Yes, Lumley," said Webb, clapping the man on the shoulder, "famous news.This little girl has been helping me just as much as she has you, and she
has promised to help me through life.One of these days we shall have a
home of our own, and you shall have a cottage near it, and the little
girl here that you've named Amy shall go to school and have a better
chance than you and your wife have had."exclaimed the man, almost breaking out into a
hornpipe."The Lord on'y knows what will happen ef things once git a
goin' right!Webb, thar's my han' agin'.Ef yer'd gone ter heaven fer
her, yer couldn't 'a got sich a gell.Well, well, give me a chance on yer
place, an' I'll work fer yer all the time, even nights an' Sundays."The child dropped her books and toys,
and clung to Amy."She knows yer; she knows all about yer," said the
delighted father."Well, ef yer must go, yer'll take suthin' with us;"
and from a great pitcher of milk he filled several goblets, and they all
drank to the health of little Amy."Yer'll fin' half-dozen pa'triges
under the seat, Miss Amy," he said, as they drove away."I was bound I'd
have some kind of a present fer yer."She waved her hand back to him, and saw him standing bareheaded in the
cutting wind, looking after her."Poor old Lumley was right," said Webb, drawing her to him; "I do feel as
if I had received my little girl from heaven.We will give those people a
chance, and try to turn the law of heredity in the right direction."Alvord sat over his lonely hearth,
his face buried in his hands.The day had been terribly long and
torturing; memory had presented, like mocking spectres, his past and what
it might have been.A sense of loneliness, a horror of great darkness,
overwhelmed him.Nature had grown cold and forbidding, and was losing its
power to solace.Johnnie, absorbed in her Christmas preparations, had not
been to see him for a long time.He had gone to inquire after her on the
previous evening, and through the lighted window of the Clifford home had
seen a picture that had made his own abode appear desolate indeed.In
despairing bitterness he had turned away, feeling that that happy home
was no more a place for him than was heaven.He had wandered out into the
storm for hours, like a lost spirit, and at last had returned and slept
in utter exhaustion.On the morning preceding Christmas memory awoke with
him, and as night approached he was sinking into sullen, dreary apathy.There was a light tap at the door, but he did not hear it.A child's face
peered in at his window, and Johnnie saw him cowering over his dying
fire.She had grown accustomed to his moods, and had learned to be
fearless, for she had banished his evil spells before.Therefore she
entered softly, laid down her bundles and stood beside him.she said, laying her hand on his shoulder.He started up,
and at the same moment a flickering blaze rose on the hearth, and
revealed the sunny-haired child standing beside him.If an angel had
come, the effect could not have been greater.Like all who are morbid, he
was largely under the dominion of imagination; and Johnnie, with her
fearless, gentle, commiserating eyes, had for him the potency of a
supernatural visitor.But the healthful, unconscious child had a better
power.Her words and touch brought saneness as well as hope.Alvord," she cried, "were you asleep?your fire is going
out, and your lamp is not lighted, and there is nothing ready for your
supper.What a queer man you are, for one who is so kind!Mamma said I
might come and spend a little of Christmas-eve with you, and bring my
gifts, and then that you would bring me home.I know how to fix up your
fire and light your lamp.and she bustled around, the embodiment of beautiful life.he said, taking her sweet face in his hands, and looking
into her clear eyes, "Heaven must have sent you.I was so lonely and sad
that I wished I had never lived."See what I've brought you,"
and she opened a book with the angels' song of "peace and good-will"
illustrated."Mamma says that whoever believes that ought to be happy,"
said the child."Yes, it's true for those who are like you and your mother."She leaned against him, and looked over his shoulder at the pictures.Alvord, mamma said the song was for you, too.Of course, mamma's
right.What else did He come for but to help people who are in trouble?I
read stories about Him every Sunday to mamma, and He was always helping
people who were in trouble, and who had done wrong.That's why we are
always glad on Christmas.You look at the book while I set your table."He did look at it till his eyes were blinded with tears, and like a sweet
refrain came the words.Half an hour later Leonard, with a kindly impulse, thought he would go to
take by the hand Johnnie's strange friend, and see how the little girl
was getting on.The scene within, as he passed the window, checked his
steps.Alvord's table, pouring tea for
him, chattering meanwhile with a child's freedom, and the hermit was
looking at her with such a smile on his haggard face as Leonard had never
seen there.He walked quietly home, deferring his call till the morrow,
feeling that Johnnie's spell must not be broken.Alvord put Johnnie down at her home, for he had
insisted on carrying her through the snow, and for the first time kissed
her, as he said:

"Good-by.You, to-night, have been like one of the angels that brought
the tidings of 'peace and good-will.'""I'm sorry for him, mamma!"said the little girl, after telling her
story, "for he's very lonely, and he's such a queer, nice man.Isn't it
funny that he should be so old, and yet not know why we keep Christmas?"Amy sang again the Christmas hymn that her own father and the father who
had adopted her had loved so many years before.Clifford, as he was fondly bidding her good-night, "how sweetly you have
fulfilled the hopes you raised one year ago!"Clifford had gone to her room, leaning on the arm of Gertrude.As
the invalid kissed her in parting, she said:

"You have beautiful eyes, my dear, and they have seen far more of the
world than mine, but, thank God, they are clear and true.Keep them so,
my child, that I may welcome you again to a better home than this."Once more "the old house stood silent and dark in the pallid landscape."The winds were hushed, as if the peace within had been breathed into the
very heart of Nature, and she, too, could rest in her wintry sleep.The
moon was obscured by a veil of clouds, and the outlines of the trees were
faint upon the snow.A shadowy form drew near; a man paused, and looked
upon the dwelling."If the angels' song could be heard anywhere to-night,
it should be over that home," Mr.Alvord murmured; but, even to his
morbid fancy, the deep silence of the night remained unbroken.He
returned to his home, and sat down in the firelight.A golden-haired
child again leaned upon his shoulder, and asked, "What else did He come
for but to help people who are in trouble, and who have done wrong?"Was it a voice deep in his own soul that was longing to
escape from evil?or was it a harmony far away in the sky, that whispered
of peace at last?That message from heaven is clearest where the need is
greatest.Hargrove's home was almost a palace, but its stately rooms were
desolate on Christmas-eve.He wandered restlessly through their
magnificence.He paid no heed to the costly furniture and costlier works
of art."Trurie was right," he muttered."What power have these things to
satisfy when the supreme need of the heart is unsatisfied?It seems as if
I could not sleep to-night without seeing her.There is no use in
disguising the truth that I'm losing her.Even on Christmas-eve she is
absent.It's late, and since I cannot see her, I'll see her gift;" and he
went to her room, where she had told him to look for her remembrance.To his surprise, he found that, according to her secret instructions, it
was lighted.He entered the dainty apartment, and saw the glow of autumn
leaves and the airy grace of ferns around the pictures and windows.He
started, for he almost saw herself, so true was the life-size and
lifelike portrait that smiled upon him.Beneath it were the words, "Merry
Christmas, papa!You have not lost me; you have only made me happy."The moon is again rising over old Storm King; the crystals that cover the
white fields and meadows are beginning to flash in its rays; the great
pine by the Clifford home is sighing and moaning.What heavy secret has
the old tree that it can sigh with such a group near as is now gathered
beneath it?Burt's black horse rears high as he reins him in, that
Gertrude may spring into the cutter, then speeds away like a shadow
through the moonlight Webb's steed is strong and quiet, like himself, and
as tireless.Amy steps to Webb's side, feeling it to be her place in very
truth.Sable Abram draws up next, with the great family sleigh, and in a
moment Alf is perched beside him.Then Leonard half smothers Johnnie and
Ned under the robes, and Maggie, about to pick her way through the snow,
finds herself taken up in strong arms, like one of the children, and is
with them.The chime of bells dies away in the distance.Wedding-bells
will be their echo.*       *       *       *       *

The merry Christmas-day has passed.Barkdale, and other friends have come and gone with their greetings;
the old people are left alone beside their cheery fire."Here we are, mother, all by ourselves, just as we were once before on
Christmas night, when you were as fair and blooming as Amy or Gertrude.Well, my dear, the long journey seems short to-night.I suppose the
reason is that you have been such good company.""Dear old father, the journey would have been long and weary indeed, had
I not had your strong arm to lean upon, and a love that didn't fade with
my roses.There is only one short journey before us now, father, and then
we shall know fully the meaning of the 'good tidings of great joy'
forever.""I'll pay you back one o' these days, if I can.If you'd got a rope round your neck same as I 'ave you'd do the same as
I've done."He lifted up the bedclothes and put Ginger inside and tucked 'im up.Ginger's face was red with passion and 'is eyes starting out of his 'ead."Eight and six is fifteen," ses Bill, and just then he 'eard somebody
coming up the stairs.Ginger 'eard it, too, and as Peter Russet came
into the room 'e tried all 'e could to attract 'is attention by rolling
'is 'ead from side to side."Why, 'as Ginger gone to bed?""He's all right," ses Bill; "just a bit of a 'eadache."Peter stood staring at the bed, and then 'e pulled the clothes off and
saw pore Ginger all tied up, and making awful eyes at 'im to undo him."I 'ad to do it, Peter," ses Bill."I wanted some more money to escape
with, and 'e wouldn't lend it to me.I 'aven't got as much as I want
now.You just came in in the nick of time.Another minute and you'd ha'
missed me."Ah, I wish I could lend you some, Bill," ses Peter Russet, turning pale,
"but I've 'ad my pocket picked; that's wot I came back for, to get some
from Ginger.""You see 'ow it is, Bill," ses Peter, edging back toward the door; "three
men laid 'old of me and took every farthing I'd got.""Well, I can't rob you, then," ses Bill, catching 'old of 'im."Whoever's money this is," he ses, pulling a handful out o' Peter's
pocket, "it can't be yours.Now, if you make another sound I'll knock
your 'ead off afore I tie you up.""Don't tie me up, Bill," ses Peter, struggling."I can't trust you," ses Bill, dragging 'im over to the washstand and
taking up the other towel; "turn round."Peter was a much easier job than Ginger Dick, and arter Bill 'ad done 'im
'e put 'im in alongside o' Ginger and covered 'em up, arter first tying
both the gags round with some string to prevent 'em slipping."Mind, I've only borrowed it," he ses, standing by the side o' the bed;
"but I must say, mates, I'm disappointed in both of you.If either of
you 'ad 'ad the misfortune wot I've 'ad, I'd have sold the clothes off my
back to 'elp you.And I wouldn't 'ave waited to be asked neither."He stood there for a minute very sorrowful, and then 'e patted both their
'eads and went downstairs.Ginger and Peter lay listening for a bit, and
then they turned their pore bound-up faces to each other and tried to
talk with their eyes.Then Ginger began to wriggle and try and twist the cords off, but 'e
might as well 'ave tried to wriggle out of 'is skin.The worst of it was
they couldn't make known their intentions to each other, and when Peter
Russet leaned over 'im and tried to work 'is gag off by rubbing it up
agin 'is nose, Ginger pretty near went crazy with temper.He banged
Peter with his 'ead, and Peter banged back, and they kept it up till
they'd both got splitting 'eadaches, and at last they gave up in despair
and lay in the darkness waiting for Sam.And all this time Sam was sitting in the Red Lion, waiting for them.He
sat there quite patient till twelve o'clock and then walked slowly 'ome,
wondering wot 'ad happened and whether Bill had gone.Ginger was the fust to 'ear 'is foot on the stairs, and as he came into
the room, in the darkness, him an' Peter Russet started shaking their bed
in a way that scared old Sam nearly to death.He thought it was Bill
carrying on agin, and 'e was out o' that door and 'arf-way downstairs
afore he stopped to take breath.He stood there trembling for about ten
minutes, and then, as nothing 'appened, he walked slowly upstairs agin on
tiptoe, and as soon as they heard the door creak Peter and Ginger made
that bed do everything but speak.ses old Sam, in a shaky voice, and standing ready
to dash downstairs agin.There was no answer except for the bed, and Sam didn't know whether Bill
was dying or whether 'e 'ad got delirium trimmings.All 'e did know was
that 'e wasn't going to sleep in that room.He shut the door gently and
went downstairs agin, feeling in 'is pocket for a match, and, not finding
one, 'e picked out the softest stair 'e could find and, leaning his 'ead
agin the banisters, went to sleep.[Illustration: "Picked out the softest stair 'e could find."]It was about six o'clock when 'e woke up, and broad daylight.He was
stiff and sore all over, and feeling braver in the light 'e stepped
softly upstairs and opened the door.Peter and Ginger was waiting for
'im, and as he peeped in 'e saw two things sitting up in bed with their
'air standing up all over like mops and their faces tied up with
bandages.He was that startled 'e nearly screamed, and then 'e stepped
into the room and stared at 'em as if he couldn't believe 'is eyes."Wot d'ye mean by making sights of
yourselves like that?'Ave you took leave of your senses?"Ginger and Peter shook their 'eads and rolled their eyes, and then Sam
see wot was the matter with 'em.Fust thing 'e did was to pull out 'is
knife and cut Ginger's gag off, and the fust thing Ginger did was to call
'im every name 'e could lay his tongue to."You wait a moment," he screams, 'arf crying with rage."You wait till I
get my 'ands loose and I'll pull you to pieces.The idea o' leaving us
like this all night, you old crocodile.He cut off Peter Russet's gag, and Peter Russet
called 'im 'arf a score o' names without taking breath."And when Ginger's finished I'll 'ave a go at you," he ses."Oh, you wait till I get my 'ands on
you."Sam didn't answer 'em; he shut up 'is knife with a click and then 'e sat
at the foot o' the bed on Ginger's feet and looked at 'em.It wasn't the
fust time they'd been rude to 'im, but as a rule he'd 'ad to put up with
it.He sat and listened while Ginger swore 'imself faint."That'll do," he ses, at last; "another word and I shall put the
bedclothes over your 'ead.Afore I do anything more I want to know wot
it's all about."Peter told 'im, arter fust calling 'im some more names, because Ginger
was past it, and when 'e'd finished old Sam said 'ow surprised he was
at them for letting Bill do it, and told 'em how they ought to 'ave
prevented it.He sat there talking as though 'e enjoyed the sound of 'is
own voice, and he told Peter and Ginger all their faults and said wot
sorrow it caused their friends.Twice he 'ad to throw the bedclothes
over their 'eads because o' the noise they was making.[Illustration: "Old Sam said 'ow surprised he was at them for letting
Bill do it."]"_Are you going--to undo--us?_"  ses Ginger, at last."No, Ginger," ses old Sam; "in justice to myself I couldn't do it.Arter
wot you've said--and arter wot I've said--my life wouldn't be safe.Besides which, you'd want to go shares in my money."He took up 'is chest and marched downstairs with it, and about 'arf an
hour arterward the landlady's 'usband came up and set 'em free.As soon
as they'd got the use of their legs back they started out to look for
Sam, but they didn't find 'im for nearly a year, and as for Bill, they
never set eyes on 'im again.End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Bill's Lapse, by W.W.with no suspicion that the
larger part of her ecstasy arose from the presence of her young and
sympathetic companion.He, too, responded to the beauty of the day, of
the golden forest as one who had taken new hold on life after long
illness.Meanwhile the Supervisor was calmly leading the way upward, vaguely
conscious of the magical air and mystic landscape in which his young folk
floated as if on wings, thinking busily of the improvements which were
still necessary in the trail, and weighing with care the clouds which
still lingered upon the tallest summits, as if debating whether to go or
to stay.He had never been an imaginative soul, and now that age had
somewhat dimmed his eyes and blunted his senses he was placidly content
with his path.The rapture of the lover, the song of the poet, had long
since abandoned his heart.To
him it was a nice day, but a "weather breeder.""I wonder if I shall ever ride through this mountain world as unmoved as
he seems to be?"Norcross asked himself, after some jarring prosaic
remark from his chief."I am glad Berrie responds to it."At last they left these lower, wondrous forest aisles and entered the
unbroken cloak of firs whose dark and silent deeps had a stern beauty all
their own; but the young people looked back upon the glowing world below
with wistful hearts.Back and forth across a long, down-sweeping ridge
they wove their toilsome way toward the clouds, which grew each hour more
formidable, awesome with their weight, ponderous as continents in their
majesty of movement.The horses began to labor with roaring breath, and
Wayland, dismounting to lighten his pony's burden, was dismayed to
discover how thin the air had become.Even to walk unburdened gave him a
smothering pain in his breast."My rule is to ride the hill going up
and walk it going down.Down hill is harder on a horse than going up."Nevertheless he persisted in clambering up some of the steepest parts of
the trail, and was increasingly dismayed by the endless upward reaches of
the foot-hills.A dozen times he thought, "We must be nearly at the top,"
and then other and far higher ridges suddenly developed.Occasionally the
Supervisor was forced to unsling an ax and chop his way through a fallen
tree, and each time the student hurried to the spot, ready to aid, but
was quite useless.He admired the ease and skill with which the older man
put his shining blade through the largest bole, and wondered if he could
ever learn to do as well."One of the first essentials of a ranger's training is to learn to swing
an ax," remarked McFarlane, "and you never want to be without a real
tool._I_ won't stand for a hatchet ranger."Berrie called attention to the marks on the trees."This is the
government sign--a long blaze with two notches above it.You can trust
these trails; they lead somewhere.""As you ride a trail study how to improve it," added the Supervisor,
sheathing his ax.Wayland was sure of this a few steps farther on, when the Supervisor's
horse went down in a small bog-hole, and Berrie's pony escaped only by
the most desperate plunging.The girl laughed, but Wayland was appalled
and stood transfixed watching McFarlane as he calmly extricated himself
from the saddle of the fallen horse and chirped for him to rise."You act as if this were a regular part of the journey," Wayland said to
Berrie."It's all in the day's work," she replied; "but I despise a bog worse
than anything else on the trail.I'll show you how to go round this one."Thereupon she slid from her horse and came tiptoeing back along the edge
of the mud-hole.McFarlane cut a stake and plunged it vertically in the mud."That means
'no bottom,'" he explained.Wayland was dismounting when Berrie said: "Stay on.Now put your horse
right through where those rocks are.He felt like a child; but he did as she bid, and so came safely through,
while McFarlane set to work to blaze a new route which should avoid the
slough which was already a bottomless horror to the city man.This mishap delayed them nearly half an hour, and the air grew dark and
chill as they stood there, and the amateur ranger began to understand how
serious a lone night journey might sometimes be."What would I do if when
riding in the dark my horse should go down like that and pin me in the
mud?""Eternal watchfulness is certainly one of the
forester's first principles."The sky was overshadowed now, and a thin drizzle of rain filled the air.The novice hastened to throw his raincoat over his shoulders; but
McFarlane rode steadily on, clad only in his shirtsleeves, unmindful of
the wet.Berrie, however, approved Wayland's caution."That's right; keep
dry," she called back."Don't pay attention to father, he'd rather get
soaked any day than unroll his slicker.You mustn't take him for model
yet awhile."He no longer resented her sweet solicitude, although he considered
himself unentitled to it, and he rejoiced under the shelter of his fine
new coat.He began to perceive that one could be defended against a
storm.After passing two depressing marshes, they came to a hillside so steep,
so slippery, so dark, so forbidding, that one of the pack-horses balked,
shook his head, and reared furiously, as if to say "I can't do it, and I
won't try."The forest was gloomy and
cold, and apparently endless.After coaxing him for a time with admirable gentleness, the Supervisor,
at Berrie's suggestion, shifted part of the load to her own saddle-horse,
and they went on.Wayland, though incapable of comment--so great was the demand upon his
lungs--was not too tired to admire the power and resolution of the girl,
who seemed not to suffer any special inconvenience from the rarefied air.The dryness of his open mouth, the throbbing of his troubled pulse, the
roaring of his breath, brought to him with increasing dismay the fact
that he had overlooked another phase of the ranger's job."I couldn't
chop a hole through one of these windfalls in a week," he admitted, as
McFarlane's blade again liberated them from a fallen tree."To do office
work at six thousand feet is quite different from swinging an ax up here
at timber-line," he said to the girl."I guess my chest is too narrow for
high altitudes.""Oh, you'll get used to it," she replied, cheerily."I always feel it a
little at first; but I really think it's good for a body, kind o'
stretches the lungs."Nevertheless, she eyed him with furtive anxiety.He was beginning to be hungry also--he had eaten a very early
breakfast--and he fell to wondering just where and when they were to
camp; but he endured in silence."So long as Berrie makes no complaint my
mouth is shut," he told himself."Surely I can stand it if she can."Up and up the pathway looped, crossing minute little boggy meadows, on
whose bottomless ooze the grass shook like a blanket, descending steep
ravines and climbing back to dark and muddy <DW72>s.The forest was
dripping, green, and silent now, a mysterious menacing jungle.All the
warmth and magic of the golden forest below was lost as though it
belonged to another and sunnier world.Nothing could be seen of the high,
snow-flecked peaks which had allured them from the valley.All about them
drifted the clouds, and yet through the mist the flushed face of the girl
glowed like a dew-wet rose, and the imperturbable Supervisor jogged his
remorseless, unhesitating way toward the dense, ascending night."I'm glad I'm not riding this pass alone," Wayland said, as they paused
again for breath."So am I," she answered; but her thought was not his.She was happy at
the prospect of teaching him how to camp.At last they reached the ragged edge of timber-line, and there, rolling
away under the mist, lay the bare, grassy, upward-climbing, naked neck of
the great peak.The wind had grown keener moment by moment, and when they
left the storm-twisted pines below, its breath had a wintry nip.The rain
had ceased to fall, but the clouds still hung densely to the loftiest
summits.It was a sinister yet beautiful world--a world as silent as a
dream, and through the short, thick grass the slender trail ran like a
timid serpent.The hour seemed to have neither daytime nor season.All
was obscure, mysterious, engulfing, and hostile.Had he been alone the
youth would have been appalled by the prospect."Now we're on the divide," called Berea; and as she spoke they seemed to
enter upon a boundless Alpine plain of velvet-russet grass.Low monuments of loose rock stood on small ledges,
as though to mark the course, and in the hollows dark ponds of icy water
lay, half surrounded by masses of compact snow."This is a stormy place in winter," McFarlane explained."These piles of
stone are mighty valuable in a blizzard.I've crossed this divide in
August in snow so thick I could not see a rod."Wind-twisted, storm-bleached
dwarf pines were first to show, then the firs, then the blue-green
spruces, and then the sheltering deeps of the undespoiled forest opened,
and the roar of a splendid stream was heard; but still the Supervisor
kept his resolute way, making no promises as to dinner, though his
daughter called: "We'd better go into camp at Beaver Lake.I hope you're
not starved," she called to Wayland."But I am," he replied, so frankly that she never knew how faint he
really was.His knees were trembling with weakness, and he stumbled
dangerously as he trod the loose rocks in the path.They were all afoot now descending swiftly, and the horses ramped down
the trail with expectant haste, so that in less than an hour from
timber-line they were back into the sunshine of the lower valley, and at
three o'clock or thereabouts they came out upon the bank of an exquisite
lake, and with a cheery shout McFarlane called out: "Here we are, out of
the wilderness!"Then to Wayland: "Well, boy, how did you stand it?""Just middling," replied Wayland, reticent from weariness and with joy of
their camping-place.The lake, dark as topaz and smooth as steel, lay in
a frame of golden willows--as a jewel is filigreed with gold--and above
it the cliffs rose three thousand feet in sheer majesty, their upper
<DW72>s glowing with autumnal grasses.A swift stream roared down a low
ledge and fell into the pond near their feet.Grassy, pine-shadowed
knolls afforded pasture for the horses, and two giant firs, at the edge
of a little glade, made a natural shelter for their tent.With businesslike certitude Berrie unsaddled her horse, turned him loose,
and lent a skilful hand at removing the panniers from the pack-animals,
while Wayland, willing but a little uncertain, stood awkwardly about.Under her instruction he collected dead branches of a standing fir, and
from these and a few cones kindled a blaze, while the Supervisor hobbled
the horses and set the tent."If the work of a forester were all like this it wouldn't be so bad," he
remarked, wanly."I think I know several fellows who would be glad to do
it without a cent of pay.""Wait till you get to heaving a pick," she retorted, "or scaling lumber
in a rain, or building a corduroy bridge.""I don't want to think of anything so dreadful.I never was hungrier or happier in my life.""Do ye good," interjected McFarlane, who had paused to straighten up the
coffee-pot."Most people don't know what hunger means.There's nothing
finer in the world than good old-fashioned hunger, provided you've got
something to throw into yourself when you come into camp.I think I'll see if I can't jerk a few out.""Better wait till night," said his daughter.Norcross is starving,
and so am I. Plain bacon will do me."The coffee came to a boil, the skillet gave off a wondrous savor, and
when the corn and beans began to sizzle, the trailers sat down to their
feast in hearty content, with one of the panniers for a table, and the
fir-tree for roof."This is one of the most perfectly appointed
dining-rooms in the world," exclaimed the alien.The girl met his look with a tender smile."I'm glad you like it, for
perhaps we'll stay a week.""It looks stormy," the Supervisor announced, after a glance at the
crests."I'd like to see a soaking rain--it would end all our worry about
fires.The country's very dry on this side the range, and your duty for
the present will be to help Tony patrol."While he talked on, telling the youth how to beat out a small blaze and
how to head off a large one, Wayland listened, but heard his instructions
only as he sensed the brook, as an accompaniment to Berea's voice, for as
she busied herself clearing away the dishes and putting the camp to
rights, she sang."You're to have the tent," said her father, "and we two huskies will
sleep under the shade of this big fir.If you're ever caught out," he
remarked to Wayland, "hunt for one of these balsam firs; there's always a
dry spot under them.And he showed him the sheltered circle
beneath the tree."You can always get twigs for kindling from their inner
branches," he added, "or you can hew into one of these dead trees and get
some pitchy splinters.There's material for everything you want if you
know where to find it.Shelter, food, fire are all here for us as they
were for the Indians.A ranger who needs a roof all the time is not worth
his bacon."So, one by one, the principles of camping were taught by the kindly old
rancher; but the hints which the girl gave were quite as valuable, for
Wayland was eager to show her that he could be, and intended to be, a
forester of the first class or perish in the attempt.McFarlane went farther and talked freely of the forest and what it meant
to the government."We're all green at the work," he said, "and we old
chaps are only holding the fort against the thieves till you youngsters
learn how to make the best use of the domain.""I can see that it takes more than technical training to enable a man to
be Supervisor of a forest," conceded Wayland.When I first came on, it was mainly patrolling; but now,
with a half dozen sawmills, and these 'June Eleventh Homesteads,' and the
new ways of marking timber, and the grazing and free-use permits, the
office work has doubled.Wait till
Colorado has two millions of people, and all these lower valleys are
clamoring for water.Then you'll see a new party spring up--right here in
our state.""Let's stay here till the end of the
week," she suggested."I've always wanted to camp on this lake, and now
I'm here I want time to enjoy it.""We'll stay a day or two," said her father; "but I must get over to that
ditch survey which is being made at the head of Poplar, and then Moore is
coming over to look at some timber on Porcupine."The young people cut willow rods and went angling at the outlet of the
lake with prodigious success.The water rippled with trout, and in half
an hour they had all they could use for supper and breakfast, and,
behold, even as they were returning with their spoil they met a covey of
grouse strolling leisurely down to the lake's edge."It's like being on the Swiss Family Robinson's Island.I never was more
content," he said, fervently."I wouldn't mind staying here all winter.""The snow falls four feet deep up here.It's
likely there's snow on the divide this minute, and camping in the snow
isn't so funny.Some people got snowed in over at Deep Lake last year and
nearly all their horses starved before they could get them out.This is a
fierce old place in winter-time.""I can't imagine it," he said, indicating the glowing amphitheater which
inclosed the lake."See how warmly the sun falls into that high basin!It's all as beautiful as the Tyrol."The air at the moment was golden October, and the dark clouds which lay
to the east seemed the wings of a departing rather than an approaching
storm; and even as they looked, a rainbow sprang into being, arching the
lake as if in assurance of peace and plenty, and the young people, as
they turned to face it, stood so close together that each felt the glow
of the other's shoulder.The beauty of the scene seemed to bring them
together in body as in spirit, and they fell silent.McFarlane seemed quite unconscious of any necromancy at work upon his
daughter.He smoked his pipe, made notes in his field-book, directing an
occasional remark toward his apprentice, enjoying in his tranquil,
middle-age way the beauty and serenity of the hour."This is the kind of thing that makes up for a hard day's ride," he said,
jocosely.As the sunset came on, the young people again loitered down to the
water's edge, and there, seated side by side, on a rocky knoll, watched
the phantom gold lift from the willows and climb slowly to the cliffs
above, while the water deepened in shadow, and busy muskrats marked its
glossy surface with long silvery lines.Mischievous camp-birds peered at
the couple from the branches of the pines uttering satirical comment,
while squirrels, frankly insolent, dropped cones upon their heads and
barked in saucy glee.Wayland forgot all the outside world, forgot that he was studying to be a
forest ranger, and was alive only to the fact that in this most
bewitching place, in this most entrancing hour, he had the companionship
of a girl whose eyes sought his with every new phase of the silent and
wonderful scene which shifted swiftly before their eyes like a noiseless
yet prodigious drama.He forgot his
fatigue, his weakness.He was the poet and the forest lover, and this the
heart of the range.Lightly the golden glory rose till only the highest peaks retained its
flame; then it leapt to the clouds behind the peaks, and gorgeously lit
their somber sulphurous masses.The edges of the pool grew black as
night; the voice of the stream grew stern; and a cold wind began to fall
from the heights, sliding like an invisible but palpable icy cataract.I must go back and get
supper.""We don't need any supper," he protested."Father does, and you'll be hungry before morning," she retorted, with
sure knowledge of men.He turned from the scene reluctantly; but once at the camp-fire
cheerfully gave his best efforts to the work in hand, seconding Berrie's
skill as best he could.The trout, deliciously crisp, and some potatoes and batter-cakes made a
meal that tempted even his faint appetite, and when the dishes were
washed and the towels hung out to dry, deep night possessed even the high
summit of stately Ptarmigan.McFarlane then said: "I'll just take a little turn to see that the horses
are all right, and then I think we'd better close in for the night."When they were alone in the light of the fire, Wayland turned to Berrie:
"I'm glad you're here.It must be awesome to camp alone in a wilderness;
and yet, I suppose, I must learn to do it.""Yes, the ranger often has to camp alone, ride alone, and work alone for
weeks at a time," she assured him."A good trailer don't mind a night
trip any more than he does a day trip, or if he does he never admits it.Rain, snow, darkness, is all the same to him.Most of the boys are
fifteen to forty miles from the post-office.""I begin to have new doubts about this ranger
business.It's a little more vigorous than I thought it was.Suppose a
fellow breaks a leg on one of those high trails?""He can't afford really to take
reckless chances; but then father won't expect as much of you as he does
of the old-stagers.You'll have plenty of time to get used to it.""I may be like the old man's cow and the green shavings, just as I'm
getting used to it I'll die.""You mustn't be rash; don't jump into any hard
jobs for the present; let the other fellow do it."If I go into the work I ought to be able to
take my share of any task that turns up.""You'd better go slow," she argued.You need something over your shoulders now," she added; and rose and laid
a blanket over him."You're tired; you'll take a chill if you're not
careful.""You're very considerate," he said, looking up at her gratefully."But it
makes me feel like a child to think I need such care.If honestly trying,
if going up against these hills and winds with Spartan courage will do me
good, I'm for it.I'm resolved to show to you and your good father that I
can learn to ride and pack and cut trail, and do all the rest of
it--there's some honor in qualifying as a forester, and I'm going to do
it.""Of course there isn't much in it for you.The pay, even of a full
ranger, isn't much, after you count out his outlay for horses and saddles
and their feed, and his own feed.It don't leave so very much of his
ninety dollars a month.""I'm not thinking of that," he retorted."If you had once seen a doctor
shake his head over you, as I have, you'd think just being here in this
glorious spot, as I am to-night, would be compensation enough.It's a joy
to be in the world, and a delight to have you for my teacher."She was silent under the pleasure of his praise, and he went on: "I
_know_ I'm better, and, I'm perfectly certain I can regain my strength.The very odor of these pines and the power of these winds will bring it
back to me.See me now, and think how I looked when I came here six weeks
ago."When I saw you
first I surely thought you were--"

"I know what you thought--and forget it, _please_!Think of me as one who
has touched mother earth again and is on the way to being made a giant.You can't imagine how marvelous, how life-giving all this is to me.It is
poetry, it is prophecy, it is fulfilment.McFarlane, upon his return, gave some advice relating to the care of
horses."All this stock which is accustomed to a barn or a pasture will
quit you," he warned.Put them on the outward side
of your camp when you bed down, and pitch your tent near the trail, then
you will hear the brutes if they start back.Some men tie their stock all
up; but I usually picket my saddle-horse and hobble the rest."It was a delightful hour for schooling, and Wayland would have been
content to sit there till morning listening; but the air bit, and at last
the Supervisor asked: "Have you made your bed?I
shall get you out early to-morrow."As he saw the bed, he added: "I see
you've laid out a bed of boughs.It's too cold in this climate, and it's too much work.You want to hug the ground--if it's dry."The weary youth went to his couch with a sense of timorous elation, for
he had never before slept beneath the open sky.Over him the giant
fir--tall as a steeple--dropped protecting shadow, and looking up he
could see the firelight flickering on the wide-spread branches.His bed
seemed to promise all the dreams and restful drowse which the books on
outdoor life had described, and close by in her tiny little canvas house
he could hear the girl in low-voiced conversation with her sire.All
conditions seemed right for slumber, and yet slumber refused to come!After the Supervisor had rolled himself in the blanket, long after all
sounds had ceased in the tent, there still remained for the youth a score
of manifold excitations to wakefulness.Down on the lake the muskrats and
beavers were at their work.Nocturnal birds uttered uncanny, disturbing
cries.Some animal with stealthy crackling tread was ranging the
hillside, and the roar of the little fall, so far from lulling him to
sleep--as he had imagined it would--stimulated his imagination till he
could discern in it the beat of scurrying wings and the patter of
pernicious padded feet."If I am appalled by the wilderness now, what
would it seem to me were I alone!"Then, too, his bed of boughs discovered unforeseen humps and knobs, and
by the time he had adjusted himself to their discomfort, it became
evident that his blankets were both too thin and too short.And the gelid
air sweeping down from the high places submerged him as if with a flood
of icy water.In vain he turned and twisted within his robes.No sooner
were his shoulders covered and comfortable than his hip-bones began to
ache.Later on the blood of his feet congealed, and in the effort to wrap
them more closely, he uncovered his neck and shoulders.The frost became
a wolf, the night an oppressor."I must have a different outfit," he
decided.And then thinking that this was but early autumn, he added:
"What will it be a month later?"He began to doubt his ability to measure
up to the heroic standard of a forest patrol.The firelight flickered low, and a prowling animal daringly sniffed about
the camp, pawing at the castaway fragments of the evening meal.He felt sadly unprotected, and wished McFarlane nearer at hand."It may
be a lion, but probably it is only a coyote, or a porcupine," he
concluded, and lay still for what seemed like hours waiting for the beast
to gorge himself and go away.He longed for morning with intense desire, and watched an amazingly
luminous star which hung above the eastern cliff, hoping to see it pale
and die in dawn light, but it did not; and the wind bit even sharper.His
legs ached almost to the cramping-point, and his hip-bones protruded like
knots on a log."I didn't know I had door-knobs on my hips," he remarked,
with painful humor, and, looking down at his feet, he saw that a thick
rime was gathering on his blanket."This sleeping out at night isn't what
the books crack it up to be," he groaned again, drawing his feet up to
the middle of his bed to warm them.No, I'll
stay with it; but I'll have more clothing.I'll have blankets six inches
thick.Heaps of blankets--the fleecy kind--I'll have an air-mattress."His mind luxuriated in these details till he fell into an uneasy drowse.VI

STORM-BOUND


Wayland was awakened by the mellow voice of his chief calling: "_All out!Daylight down the creek!_" Breathing a prayer of thankfulness,
the boy sat up and looked about him."The long night is over at last, and
I am alive!"He drew on his shoes and, stiff and shivering, stood about in helpless
misery, while McFarlane kicked the scattered, charred logs together, and
fanned the embers into a blaze with his hat.It was heartening to see the
flames leap up, flinging wide their gorgeous banners of heat and light,
and in their glow the tenderfoot ranger rapidly recovered his courage,
though his teeth still chattered and the forest was dark."First rate--at least during the latter part of the night," Wayland
briskly lied.I was afraid that Adirondack bed of yours might let the
white wolf in.""My blankets did seem a trifle thin," confessed Norcross."It don't pay to sleep cold," the Supervisor went on."A man wants to
wake up refreshed, not tired out with fighting the night wind and frost.It was instructive to see how quietly and methodically the old
mountaineer went about his task of getting the breakfast.First he cut
and laid a couple of eight-inch logs on either side of the fire, so that
the wind drew through them properly, then placing his dutch-oven cover on
the fire, he laid the bottom part where the flames touched it.Next he
filled his coffee-pot with water, and set it on the coals.From his
pannier he took his dishes and the flour and salt and pepper, arranging
them all within reach, and at last laid some slices of bacon in the
skillet.At this stage of the work a smothered cry, half yawn, half complaint,
came from the tent.You get up or
you'll have no breakfast."Thereupon Wayland called: "Can I get you anything, Miss Berrie?interposed McFarlane, before the girl could reply."To bathe in," replied the youth.If a daughter of mine should ask for warm water to wash
with I'd throw her in the creek.""Sometimes I think daddy has no feeling for me.I reckon
he thinks I'm a boy.""Hot water is debilitating, and very bad for the complexion," retorted
her father."Ice-cold water is what you need.And if you don't get out o'
there in five minutes I'll dowse you with a dipperful."This reminded Wayland that he had not yet made his own toilet, and,
seizing soap, towel, and brushes, he hurried away down to the beach where
he came face to face with the dawn.The splendor of it smote him full in
the eyes.From the waveless surface of the water a spectral mist was
rising, a light veil, through which the stupendous cliffs loomed three
thousand feet in height, darkly shadowed, dim and far.The willows along
the western marge burned as if dipped in liquid gold, and on the lofty
crags the sun's coming created keen-edged shadows, violet as ink.Truly
this forestry business was not so bad after all.Back at the camp-fire he found Berrie at work, glowing, vigorous,
laughing.Her comradeship with her father was very charming, and at the
moment she was rallying him on his method of bread-mixing."You should
rub the lard into the flour," she said."Don't be afraid to get your
hands into it--after they are clean."Sis, I made camp bread for twenty years afore you were born.""It's a wonder you lived to tell of it," she retorted, and took the pan
away from him."That's another thing _you_ must learn," she said to
Wayland.You can't expect to find
bake-shops or ranchers along the way."In the heat of the fire, in the charm of the girl's presence, the young
man forgot the discomforts of the night, and as they sat at breakfast,
and the sun rising over the high summits flooded them with warmth and
good cheer, and the frost melted like magic from the tent, the experience
had all the satisfying elements of a picnic.It seemed that nothing
remained to do; but McFarlane said: "Well, now, you youngsters wash up
and pack whilst I reconnoiter the stock."And with his saddle and bridle
on his shoulder he went away down the trail.Under Berrie's direction Wayland worked busily putting the camp equipment
in proper parcels, taking no special thought of time till the tent was
down and folded, the panniers filled and closed, and the fire carefully
covered.Then the girl said: "I hope the horses haven't been stampeded.There are bears in this valley, and horses are afraid of bears.Father
ought to have been back before this."No, he'll bring 'em--if they're in the land of the living.He picketed
his saddle-horse, so he's not afoot.Nobody can teach him anything about
trailing horses, and, besides, you might get lost."Let's see if we can
catch some more fish," he urged.To this she agreed, and together they went again to the outlet of the
lake--where the trout could be seen darting to and fro on the clear, dark
flood--and there cast their flies till they had secured ten good-sized
fish."We'll stop now," declared the girl."I don't believe in being
wasteful."Once more at the camp they prepared the fish for the pan.The sun
suddenly burned hot and the lake was still as brass, but great, splendid,
leisurely, gleaming clouds were sailing in from the west, all centering
about Chief Audobon, and the experienced girl looked often at the sky."I
don't like the feel of the air.See that gray cloud spreading out over
the summits of the range, that means something more than a shower.I do
hope daddy will overtake the horses before they cross the divide.We'll stay right here and get dinner for him.He'll be hungry
when he gets back."As they were unpacking the panniers and getting out the dishes, thunder
broke from the high crags above the lake, and the girl called out:

"Quick!We must reset the tent and get things under
cover."Once more he was put to shame by the decision, the skill, and the
strength with which she went about re-establishing the camp.She led, he
followed in every action.In ten minutes the canvas was up, the beds
rolled, the panniers protected, the food stored safely; but they were
none too soon, for the thick gray veil of rain, which had clothed the
loftiest crags for half an hour, swung out over the water--leaden-gray
under its folds--and with a roar which began in the tall pines--a roar
which deepened, hushed only when the thunder crashed resoundingly from
crag to crest--the tempest fell upon the camp and the world of sun and
odorous pine vanished almost instantly, and a dark, threatening, and
forbidding world took its place.But the young people--huddled close together beneath the tent--would have
enjoyed the change had it not been for the thought of the Supervisor."I
hope he took his slicker," the girl said, between the tearing, ripping
flashes of the lightning.Who would have thought it could rain like this
after so beautiful a morning?""It storms when it storms--in the mountains," she responded, with the
sententious air of her father."You never can tell what the sky is going
to do up here.It is probably snowing on the high divide.Looks now as
though those cayuses pulled out sometime in the night and have hit the
trail for home.That's the trouble with stall-fed stock.They'll quit you
any time they feel cold and hungry.she shouted, as
a sharper, more spiteful roar sounded far away and approaching.He's at home any place there's a tree.He's
probably under a balsam somewhere, waiting for this ice to spill out.The
only point is, they may get over the divide, and if they do it will be
slippery coming back."For the first time the thought that the Supervisor might not be able to
return entered Wayland's mind; but he said nothing of his fear.The hail soon changed to snow, great, clinging, drowsy, soft, slow-moving
flakes, and with their coming the roar died away and the forest became as
silent as a grave of bronze.Nothing moved, save the thick-falling,
feathery, frozen vapor, and the world was again very beautiful and very
mysterious."We must keep the fire going," warned the girl."It will be hard to start
after this soaking."He threw upon the fire all of the wood which lay near, and Berrie, taking
the ax, went to the big fir and began to chop off the dry branches which
hung beneath, working almost as effectively as a man.Wayland insisted on
taking a turn with the tool; but his efforts were so awkward that she
laughed and took it away again."You'll have to take lessons in swinging
an ax," she said.Gradually the storm lightened, the snow changed back into rain, and
finally to mist; but up on the heights the clouds still rolled wildly,
and through their openings the white drifts bleakly shone."It's all in the trip," said Berrie."You have to take the weather as it
comes on the trail."As the storm lessened she resumed the business of
cooking the midday meal, and at two o'clock they were able to eat in
comparative comfort, though the unmelted snow still covered the trees,
and water dripped from the branches.exclaimed Wayland, with glowing boyish face."The
landscape is like a Christmas card.In its way it's quite as beautiful as
that golden forest we rode through.""It wouldn't be so beautiful if you had to wallow through ten miles of
it," she sagely responded."Daddy will be wet to the skin, for I found he
didn't take his slicker.However, the sun may be out before night.That's
the way the thing goes in the hills."To the youth, though the peaks were storm-hid, the afternoon was joyous.Under her supervision he practised at
chopping wood and took a hand at cooking.At her suggestion he stripped
the tarpaulin from her father's bed and stretched it over a rope before
the tent, thus providing a commodious kitchen and dining-room.Under this
roof they sat and talked of everything except what they should do if the
father did not return, and as they talked they grew to even closer
understanding.Though quite unlearned of books, she had something which was much more
piquant than anything which theaters and novels could give--she possessed
a marvelous understanding of the natural world in which she lived.As the
companion of her father on many of his trips, she had absorbed from him,
as well as from the forest, a thousand observations of plant and animal
life.Seemingly she had nothing of the woman's fear of the wilderness,
she scarcely acknowledged any awe of it.Of the bears, and other
predatory beasts, she spoke carelessly."Bears are harmless if you let 'em alone," she said, "and the
mountain-lion is a great big bluff.He won't fight, you can't make him
fight; but the mother lion will.She's dangerous when she has cubs--most
animals are.I was out hunting grouse one day with a little twenty-two
rifle, when all at once, as I looked up along a rocky point I was
crossing, I saw a mountain-lion looking at me.First I thought I'd let
drive at him; but the chances were against my getting him from there, so
I climbed up above him--or where I thought he was--and while I was
looking for him I happened to glance to my right, and there he was about
fifty feet away looking at me pleasant as you please.Didn't seem to be
mad at all--'peared like he was just wondering what I'd do next.I jerked
my gun into place, but he faded away.I crawled around to get behind him,
and just when I reached the ledge on which he had been standing a few
minutes before, I saw him just where I'd been.He was so silent and so kind of
pleasant-looking I got leery of him.It just seemed like as though I'd
dreamed him.I began to figure then that this was a mother lion, and that her
cubs were close by, and that she could just as well sneak up and drop on
me from above as not.It was her
popping up now here and now there like a ghost that locoed me."Didn't he forbid your hunting any more?"He just said it probably was a lioness, and
that it was just as well to let her alone."How about your mother--does she approve of such expeditions?""No, mother worries more or less when I'm away; but then she knows it
don't do any good.I'm taking all kinds of chances every day, anyhow."He had to admit that she was better able to care for herself in the
wilderness than most men--even Western men--and though he had not yet
witnessed a display of her skill with a rifle, he was ready to believe
that she could shoot as well as her sire.Nevertheless, he liked her
better when engaged in purely feminine duties, and he led the talk back
to subjects concerning which her speech was less blunt and manlike.He liked her when she was joking, for delicious little curves of laughter
played about her lips.She became very amusing, as she told of her
"visits East," and of her embarrassments in the homes of city friends."I
just have to own up that about all the schooling I've got is from the
magazines.Sometimes I wish I had pulled out for town when I was about
fourteen; but, you see, I didn't feel like leaving mother, and she didn't
feel like letting me go--and so I just got what I could at Bear Tooth."Let's go see if we can't get
a grouse."The snow had nearly all sunk into the ground on their level; but it still
lay deep on the heights above, and the torn masses of vapor still clouded
the range."Father has surely had to go over the divide," she said, as
they walked down the path along the lake shore."He'll be late getting
back, and a plate of hot chicken will seem good to him."Together they strolled along the edge of the willows."The grouse come
down to feed about this time," she said."We'll put up a covey soon."It seemed to him as though he were re-living the experiences of his
ancestors--the pioneers of Michigan--as he walked this wilderness with
this intrepid huntress whose alert eyes took note of every moving thing.She was delightfully unconscious of self, of sex, of any doubt or fear.A
lovely Diana--strong and true and sweet.Within a quarter of a mile they found their birds, and she killed four
with five shots."This is all we need," she said, "and I don't believe in
killing for the sake of killing.Rangers should set good examples in way
of game preservation.They are deputy game-wardens in most states, and
good ones, too."They stopped for a time on a high bank above the lake, while the sunset
turned the storm-clouds into mountains of brass and iron, with sulphurous
caves and molten glowing ledges.This grandiose picture lasted but a few
minutes, and then the Western gates closed and all was again gray and
forbidding."Open and shut is a sign of wet," quoted Berrie, cheerily.The night rose formidably from the valley while they ate their supper;
but Berrie remained tranquil."Those horses probably went clean back to
the ranch.If they did, daddy can't possibly get back before eight
o'clock, and he may not get back till to-morrow."VII

THE WALK IN THE RAIN


Norcross, with his city training, was acutely conscious of the delicacy
of the situation.In his sister's circle a girl left alone in this way
with a man would have been very seriously embarrassed; but it was evident
that Berrie took it all joyously, innocently.Their being together was
something which had happened in the natural course of weather, a
condition for which they were in no way responsible.Therefore she
permitted herself to be frankly happy in the charm of their enforced
intimacy.She had never known a youth of his quality.He was so considerate, so
refined, so quick of understanding, and so swift to serve.He filled her
mind to the exclusion of unimportant matters like the snow, which was
beginning again; indeed, her only anxiety concerned his health, and as he
toiled amid the falling flakes, intent upon heaping up wood enough to
last out the night, she became solicitous."You will be soaked," she warningly cried.Something primeval, some strength he did not know he possessed sustained
him, and he toiled on."The Supervisor will not be able to get back to-night--perhaps not for a
couple of nights.He did not voice the fear of the storm which filled his thought; but the
girl understood it."It won't be very cold," she calmly replied."It
never is during these early blizzards; and, besides, all we need to do is
to drop down the trail ten miles and we'll be entirely out of it.""I'll feel safer with plenty of wood," he argued; but soon found it
necessary to rest from his labors.Coming in to camp, he seated himself
beside her on a roll of blankets, and so together they tended the fire
and watched the darkness roll over the lake till the shining crystals
seemed to drop from a measureless black arch, soundless and oppressive.The wind died away, and the trees stood as if turned into bronze,
moveless, save when a small branch gave way and dropped its rimy burden,
or a squirrel leaped from one top to another.Even the voice of the
waterfall seemed muffled and remote."I'm a long way from home and mother," Wayland said, with a smile;
"but--I like it.""In a way it's nicer on account of the
storm.But you are not dressed right; you should have waterproof boots.You never can tell when you may be set afoot.You should always go
prepared for rain and snow, and, above all, have an extra pair of thick
stockings.Your feet are soaked now, aren't they?""They are; but your father told me to always dry my boots on my feet,
otherwise they'd shrink out of shape.""That's right, too; but you'd better take 'em off and wring out your
socks or else put on dry ones.""You insist on my playing the invalid," he complained, "and that makes me
angry.When I've been over here a month you'll find me a glutton for
hardship.I shall be a bear, a grizzly, fearful to contemplate.She laughed like a child at his ferocity."You'll have to change a whole
lot," she said, and drew the blanket closer about his shoulders."Just
now your job is to keep warm and dry.I hope you won't get lonesome over
here.""I'm not going to open a book or read a newspaper.I'm not going to write
to a single soul except you.I'll be obliged to report to you, won't I?""You're the next thing to it," he quickly retorted."You've been my board
of health from the very first.I should have fled for home long ago had
it not been for you.""You'll get pretty tired of things over
here.It's one of the lonesomest stations in the forest.""I'll get lonesome for you; but not for the East."This remark, or rather
the tone in which it was uttered, brought another flush of consciousness
to the girl's face."If father isn't on this side of the divide now he won't try to cross.If
he's coming down the <DW72> he'll be here in an hour, although that trail
is a tolerably tough proposition this minute.A patch of dead timber on a
dark night is sure a nuisance, even to a good man."Daddy don't need any hint about direction--what he
needs is a light to see the twist of the trail through those fallen
logs.""Couldn't I rig up a torch and go to meet him?""You
couldn't follow that trail five minutes.""You have a very poor opinion of my skill.""No, I haven't; but I know how hard it is to keep direction on a night
like this and I don't want you wandering around in the timber.He's probably sitting under a big tree smoking his
pipe before his fire--or else he's at home.He knows we're all right, and
we are.We have wood and grub, and plenty of blankets, and a roof over
us.You can make your bed under this fly," she said, looking up at the
canvas."It beats the old balsam as a roof."I think I'd better sit up and keep the fire going," he replied,
heroically."There's a big log out there that I'm going to bring in to
roll up on the windward side.""It'll be cold and wet early in the morning, and I don't like to hunt
kindling in the snow," she said."I always get everything ready the night
before.It seems selfish of me to have the
tent while you are cold."One by one--under her supervision--he made preparations for morning.He
cut some shavings from a dead, dry branch of fir and put them under the
fly, and brought a bucket of water from the creek, and then together they
dragged up the dead tree.Had the young man been other than he was, the girl's purity, candor, and
self-reliance would have conquered him, and when she withdrew to the
little tent and let fall the frail barrier between them, she was as safe
from intrusion as if she had taken refuge behind gates of triple brass.Nothing in all his life had moved him so deeply as her solicitude, her
sweet trust in his honor, and he sat long in profound meditation.Any man
would be rich in the ownership of her love, he admitted.That he
possessed her pity and her friendship he knew, and he began to wonder if
he had made a deeper appeal to her than this."Can it be that I am really a man to her," he thought, "I who am only a
poor weakling whom the rain and snow can appall?"Then he thought of the effect of this night upon her life.What would
Clifford Belden do now?To what deeps would his rage descend if he should
come to know of it?Twice she spoke from her couch to say: "You'd better
go to bed.Daddy can't get here till to-morrow now."As the flame sank low the cold bit, and he built up the half-burned logs
so that they blazed again.He worked as silently as he could; but the
girl again spoke, with sweet authority: "Haven't you gone to bed yet?""I'm as comfortable as I deserve; it's all schooling, you know.His teeth were chattering as he spoke, but he added:
"I'm all right."After a silence she said: "You must not get chilled."Please drag your bed
inside the door.What would I do if you should have pneumonia to-morrow?You must not take any risk of a fever."The thought of a sheltered spot, of something to break the remorseless
wind, overcame his scruples, and he drew his bed inside the tent and
rearranged it there."It isn't so much the cold," he stammered."I'll get up and heat
some water for you.""I'll be all right, in a few moments," he said.I
shall be snug as a bug in a moment."She watched his shadowy motions from her bed, and when at last he had
nestled into his blankets, she said: "If you don't lose your chill I'll
heat a rock and put at your feet."He was ready to cry out in shame of his weakness; but he lay silent till
he could command his voice, then he said: "That would drive me from the
country in disgrace.Think of what the fellows down below will say when
they know of my cold feet.""They won't hear of it; and, besides, it is better to carry a hot-water
bag than to be laid up with a fever."Her anxiety lessened as his voice resumed its pleasant tenor flow."Dear
girl," he said, "no one could have been sweeter--more like a guardian
angel to me.She did not speak for a few moments, then in a voice that conveyed to him
a knowledge that his words of endearment had deeply moved her, she softly
said: "Good night."He heard her sigh drowsily thereafter once or twice, and then she slept,
and her slumber redoubled in him his sense of guardianship, of
responsibility.Lying there in the shelter of her tent, the whole
situation seemed simple, innocent, and poetic; but looked at from the
standpoint of Clifford Belden it held an accusation."The only thing we can do is to conceal
the fact that we spent the night beneath this tent alone."In the belief that the way would clear with the dawn, he, too, fell
asleep, while the fire sputtered and smudged in the fitful mountain
wind.The second dawn came slowly, as though crippled by the storm and walled
back by the clouds.Gradually, austerely, the bleak, white peaks began to
define themselves above the firs.The camp-birds called cheerily from the
wet branches which overhung the smoldering embers of the fire, and so at
last day was abroad in the sky.With a dull ache in his bones, Wayland crept out to the fire and set to
work fanning the coals with his hat, as he had seen the Supervisor do.He
worked desperately till one of the embers began to angrily sparkle and to
smoke.Then slipping away out of earshot he broke an armful of dry fir
branches to heap above the wet, charred logs.Soon these twigs broke into
flame, and Berrie, awakened by the crackle of the pine branches, called
out: "Is it daylight?""Yes, but it's a very _dark_ daylight.Don't leave your warm bed for the
dampness and cold out here; stay where you are; I'll get breakfast.""I'm afraid you had a bad night," she insisted, in a tone which indicated
her knowledge of his suffering."Camp life has its disadvantages," he admitted, as he put the coffee-pot
on the fire.I never fried a bird in my
life, but I'm going to try it this morning.I have some water heating for
your bath."He put the soap, towel, and basin of hot water just inside
the tent flap.I'm going to bathe in the lake.He heard her protesting as he went off down the bank, but his heart was
resolute."I'm not dead yet," he said, grimly."An invalid who can spend
two such nights as these, and still face a cold wind, has some vitality
in his bones after all."When he returned he found the girl full dressed, alert, and glowing; but
she greeted him with a touch of shyness and self-consciousness new to
her, and her eyes veiled themselves before his glance."_Now_, where do you suppose the Supervisor is?""I hope he's at home," she replied, quite seriously."I'd hate to think
of him camped in the high country without bedding or tent.""Oughtn't I to take a turn up the trail and see?I feel guilty somehow--I
must do something!""You can't help matters any by hoofing about in the mud.No, we'll just
hold the fort till he comes, that's what he'll expect us to do."He submitted once more to the force of her argument, and they ate
breakfast in such intimacy and good cheer that the night's discomforts
and anxieties counted for little.As the sun broke through the clouds
Berrie hung out the bedding in order that its dampness might be warmed
away."We may have to camp here again to-night," she explained, demurely."Worse things could happen than that," he gallantly answered."I wouldn't
mind a month of it, only I shouldn't want it to rain or snow all the
time.""Oh yes, after I came inside; but, of course, I was more or less restless
expecting your father to ride up, and then it's all rather exciting
business to a novice.I could hear all sorts of birds and beasts stepping
and fluttering about.I was scared in spite of my best resolution.""That's funny; I never feel that way.I slept like a log after I knew you
were comfortable.You must have a better bed and more blankets.The clouds settled over the peaks, and
ragged wisps of gray vapor dropped down the timbered <DW72>s of the
prodigious amphitheater in which the lake lay.Again Berrie made
everything snug while her young woodsman toiled at bringing logs for the
fire.In truth, he was more elated than he had been since leaving school, for
he was not only doing a man's work in the world, he was serving a woman
in the immemorial way of the hewer of wood and the carrier of water.His
fatigue and the chill of the morning wore away, and he took vast pride in
dragging long poles down the hillside, forcing Berrie to acknowledge that
he was astonishingly strong."But don't overdo it," she warned.At last fully provided for, they sat contentedly side by side under the
awning and watched the falling rain as it splashed and sizzled on the
sturdy fire."It's a little like being shipwrecked on a desert island,
isn't it?"She served potatoes and
grouse, hot biscuit with sugar syrup, and canned peaches, and coffee done
to just the right color and aroma.He declared it wonderful, and they ate
with repeated wishes that the Supervisor might turn up in time to share
their feast; but he did not.Then Berrie said, firmly: "Now you must take
a snooze, you look tired."He was, in truth, not only drowsy but lame and tired.Therefore, he
yielded to her suggestion.She covered him with blankets and put him away like a child."Now you
have a good sleep," she said, tenderly."I'll call you when daddy
comes."With a delicious sense of her protecting care he lay for a few moments
listening to the drip of the water on the tent, then drifted away into
peace and silence.When he woke the ground was again covered with snow, and the girl was
feeding the fire with wood which her own hands had supplied.Hearing him stir, she turned and fixed her eyes upon him with clear, soft
gaze."Quite made over," he replied, rising alertly.His cheer, however, was only pretense."Something
has happened to your father," he said."His horse has thrown him, or he
has slipped and fallen.""How far is
it down to the ranger station?""Don't you think we'd better close camp and go down there?It is now
three o'clock; we can walk it in five hours.""No, I think we'd better stay right here.It's a
long, hard walk, and the trail is muddy.""But, dear girl," he began, desperately, "it won't do for us to camp
here--alone--in this way another night."I don't care what Cliff thinks--I'm done
with him--and no one that I really care about would blame us."She was
fully aware of his anxiety now."It will be _my_ fault if I keep you here longer!""We must
reach a telephone and send word out."I'm not worried a bit about him.It may be that there's been a big
snowfall up above us--or else a windstorm.The trail may be blocked; but
don't worry.He may have to go round by Lost Lake pass."We'd better pack up and rack down the
trail to the ranger's cabin."I'm all right, except I'm very lame; but I am anxious to go on.By the
way, is this ranger Settle married?""No, his station is one of the lonesomest cabins on the forest."Nevertheless," he decided, "we'll go.After
all, the man is a forest officer, and you are the Supervisor's
daughter."She made no further protest, but busied herself closing the panniers and
putting away the camp utensils.She seemed to recognize that his judgment
was sound.It was after three when they left the tent and started down the trail,
carrying nothing but a few toilet articles."Should we have left a note for
the Supervisor?""There's all the writing he needs," she
assured him, leading the way at a pace which made him ache.She plashed
plumply into the first puddle in the path."No use dodging 'em," she
called over her shoulder, and he soon saw that she was right.The trees were dripping, the willows heavy with water, and the mud
ankle-deep--in places--but she pushed on steadily, and he, following in
her tracks, could only marvel at her strength and sturdy self-reliance.The swing of her shoulders, the poise of her head, and the lithe movement
of her waist, made his own body seem a poor thing.For two hours they zigzagged down a narrow canyon heavily timbered with
fir and spruce--a dark, stern avenue, crossed by roaring streams, and
filled with frequent boggy meadows whereon the water lay mid-leg deep."We'll get out of this very soon," she called, cheerily.By degrees the gorge widened, grew more open, more genial.Aspen thickets
of pale-gold flashed upon their eyes like sunlight, and grassy bunches
afforded firmer footing, but on the <DW72>s their feet slipped and slid
painfully."We must get to the middle fork
before dark," she stopped to explain, "for I don't know the trail down
there, and there's a lot of down timber just above the station.Now that
we're cut loose from our camp I feel nervous.As long as I have a tent I
am all right; but now we are in the open I worry.She studied him with keen and anxious glance, her hand upon his
arm."Fine as a fiddle," he replied, assuming a spirit he did not possess,
"but you are marvelous."I can do anything when I have to," she replied."We've got three hours
more of it."And she warningly exclaimed: "Look back there!"They had reached a point from which the range could be seen, and behold
it was covered deep with a seamless robe of new snow."That's why dad didn't get back last night.He's probably wallowing along
up there this minute."And she set off again with resolute stride.Wayland's pale face and labored breath alarmed her.She was filled with
love and pity, but she pressed forward desperately.As he grew tired, Wayland's boots, loaded with mud, became fetters, and
every <DW72> greasy with mire seemed an almost insurmountable barricade.He fell several times, but made no outcry."I will not add to her
anxiety," he said to himself.At last they came to the valley floor, over which a devastating fire had
run some years before, and which was still covered with fallen trees in
desolate confusion.She kept on
toward the river, although Wayland called attention to a trail leading to
the right up over the low grassy hills.For a mile the path was clear,
but she soon found herself confronted by an endless maze of blackened
tree-trunks, and at last the path ended abruptly.Dismayed and halting, she said: "We've got to go back to that trail which
branched off to the right.I reckon that was the highland trail which
Settle made to keep out of the swamp.I thought it was a trail from
Cameron Peak, but it wasn't.She was suffering keenly now, not on her own account, but on his, for she
could see that he was very tired, and to climb up that hill again was
like punishing him a second time.When she picked up the blazed trail it was so dark that she could
scarcely follow it; but she felt her way onward, turning often to be sure
that he was following.Once she saw him fall, and cried out: "It's a
shame to make you climb this hill again.I ought to
have known that that lower road led down into the timber."Standing close beside him in the darkness, knowing that he was weary,
wet, and ill, she permitted herself the expression of her love and pity.Putting her arm about him, she drew his cheek against her own, saying:
"Poor boy, your hands are cold as ice."She took them in her own warm
clasp."Oh, I wish we had never left the camp!"I shall never forgive
myself if you--" Her voice failed her.[Illustration: SHE FOUND HERSELF CONFRONTED BY AN ENDLESS MAZE
OF BLACKENED TREE-TRUNKS]

He bravely reassured her: "I'm not defeated, I'm just tired.It's better
to keep moving, anyhow."She thrust her hand under his coat and laid it over his heart."You are
tired out," she said, and there was anguish in her voice.And, hark, there's a
wolf!""I hear him; but we are both armed.VIII

THE OTHER GIRL


The girl's voice stirred the benumbed youth into action again, and he
followed her mechanically.His slender stock of physical strength was
almost gone, but his will remained unbroken.At every rough place she
came back to him to support him, to hearten him, and so he crept on
through the darkness, falling often, stumbling against the trees,
slipping and sliding, till at last his guide, pitching down a sharp
<DW72>, came directly upon a wire fence."Here is a fence, and the cabin should be near,
although I see no light.No voice replied, and, keeping Wayland's hand, she felt her way along the
fence till it revealed a gate; then she turned toward the roaring of the
stream, which grew louder as they advanced."The cabin is near the falls,
that much I know," she assured him.Then a moment later she joyfully
cried out: "Here it is!"Out of the darkness a blacker, sharper shadow rose.Again she called, but
no one answered."The ranger is away," she exclaimed, in a voice of
indignant alarm."I do hope he left the door unlocked."Too numb with fatigue, and too dazed by the darkness to offer any aid,
Wayland waited--swaying unsteadily on his feet--while she tried the door.It was bolted, and with but a moment's hesitation, she said: "It looks
like a case of breaking and entering.The windows,
too, were securely fastened.After trying them all, she came back to
where Wayland stood."Tony didn't intend to have anybody pushing in," she
decided."But if the windows will not raise they will smash."A crash of glass followed, and with a feeling that it was all part of a
dream, Wayland waited while the girl made way through the broken sash
into the dark interior.Her next utterance was a cry of joy: "Oh, but
it's nice and warm in here!You'll have to come in
the same way I did."He was too weak and too irresolute to respond immediately, and, reaching
out, she took him by the arms and dragged him across the sill.A delicious warmth, a grateful dryness, a
sense of shelter enfolded him like a garment.The place smelled
deliciously of food, of fire, of tobacco.Leading him toward the middle of the room, Berrie said: "Stand here till
I strike a light."As her match flamed up Norcross found himself in a rough-walled cabin, in
which stood a square cook-stove, a rude table littered with dishes, and
three stools made of slabs.It was all very rude; but it had all the
value of a palace at the moment.She located an oil-lamp, some
pine-wood, and a corner cupboard.In a few moments the lamp was lit, the
stove refilled with fuel, and she was stripping Wayland's wet coat from
his back, cheerily discoursing as she did so."Here's one of Tony's old
jackets, put that on while I see if I can't find some dry stockings for
you.Sit right down here by the stove; put your feet in the oven.I'll
have a fire in a jiffy.Now I'll start the
coffee-pot."She soon found the coffee, but it was unground."Wonder,
where he keeps his coffee-mill."She rummaged about for a few minutes,
then gave up the search."Well, no matter, here's the coffee, and here's
a hammer.One of the laws of the trail is this: If you can't do a thing
one way, do it another."She poured the coffee beans into an empty tomato-can and began to pound
them with the end of the hammer handle, laughing at Wayland's look of
wonder and admiration."Necessity sure is the mother of invention out
here.Isn't it nice to own a roof and four walls?I'm going to close up that window as soon as I get the coffee started."Oh yes, I'm all right now," he replied; but he didn't look it, and her
own cheer was rather forced.He was in the grasp of a nervous chill, and
she was deeply apprehensive of what the result of his exposure might be.It seemed as if the coffee would never come to a boil."I depend on that to brace you up," she said.After hanging a blanket over the broken window, she set out some cold
meat and a half dozen baking-powder biscuits, which she found in the
cupboard, and as soon as the coffee was ready she poured it for him; but
she would not let him leave the fire.She brought his supper to him and
sat beside him while he ate and drank."You must go right to bed," she urged, as she studied his weary eyes."You ought to sleep for twenty-four hours."The hot, strong coffee revived him physically and brought back a little
of his courage, and he said: "I'm ashamed to be such a weakling.""It's not your fault that you are weak.Now,
while I am eating my supper you slip off your wet clothes and creep into
Tony's bunk, and I'll fill one of these syrup-cans with hot water to put
at your feet."It was of no use for him to protest against her further care.She
insisted, and while she ate he meekly carried out her instructions, and
from the delicious warmth and security of his bed watched her moving
about the stove till the shadows of the room became one with the dusky
figures of his sleep.A moment later something falling on the floor woke him with a start, and,
looking up, he found the sun shining, and Berrie confronting him with
anxious face.I'm
trying to be extra quiet.How do you feel this
_morning_?""Is it to-morrow or the next week?"Just keep where you are
till the sun gets a little higher."She drew near and put a hand on his
brow.Oh, I hope this trip hasn't set you
back."He laid his hands together, and then felt of his pulse."I don't seem to
have a temperature.I just feel lazy, limp and lazy; but I'm going to get
up, if you'll just leave the room for a moment--"

"Don't try it now.He yielded again to the force of her will, and fell back into a luxurious
drowse hearing the stove roar and the bacon sizzle in the pan.There was
something primitive and broadly poetic in the girl's actions.Through the
haze of the kitchen smoke she enlarged till she became the typical
frontier wife, the goddess of the skillet and the coffee-pot, the consort
of the pioneer, equally skilled with the rifle and the rolling-pin.How
many millions of times had this scene been enacted on the long march of
the borderman from the Susquehanna to the Bear Tooth Range?Into his epic vision the pitiful absurdity of his own part in the play
broke like a sad discord."Of course, it is not my fault that I am a
weakling," he argued."Only it was foolish for me to thrust myself into
this stern world.If I come safely out of this adventure I will go back
to the sheltered places where I belong."At this point came again the disturbing realization that this night of
struggle, and the ministrations of his brave companion had involved him
deeper in a mesh from which honorable escape was almost impossible.The
ranger's cabin, so far from being an end of their compromising intimacy,
had added and was still adding to the weight of evidence against them
both.The presence of the ranger or the Supervisor himself could not now
save Berea from the gossips.She brought his breakfast to him, and sat beside him while he ate,
chatting the while of their good fortune."It is glorious outside, and I
am sure daddy will get across to-day, and Tony is certain to turn up
before noon.He probably went down to Coal City to get his mail.""I must get up at once," he said, in a panic of fear and shame."The
Supervisor must not find me laid out on my back.She went out, closing the door behind her, and as he crawled from his bed
every muscle in his body seemed to cry out against being moved.Nevertheless, he persisted, and at last succeeded in putting on his
clothes, even his shoes--though he found tying the laces the hardest task
of all--and he was at the wash-basin bathing his face and hands when
Berrie hurriedly re-entered."Some tourists are coming," she announced,
in an excited tone."A party of five or six people, a woman among them,
is just coming down the <DW72>.Now, who do you suppose it can be?It
would be just our luck if it should turn out to be some one from the
Mill."He divined at once the reason for her dismay.The visit of a woman at
this moment would not merely embarrass them both, it would torture
Berrie."Nothing; all we can do is to stand pat and act as if we belonged here.""Very well," he replied, moving stiffly toward the door."Here's where I
can be of some service.As our hero crawled out into the brilliant sunshine some part of his
courage came back to him.Though lame in every muscle, he was not ill.His head was clear, and his breath full
and deep."My lungs are all right," he said to himself."I'm not going to
collapse."And he looked round him with a new-born admiration of the
wooded hills which rose in somber majesty on either side the roaring
stream."How different it all looks this morning," he said, remembering
the deep blackness of the night.The beat of hoofs upon the bridge drew his attention to the cavalcade,
which the keen eyes of the girl had detected as it came over the ridge to
the east.The party consisted of two men and two women and three
pack-horses completely outfitted for the trail.One of the women, spurring her horse to the front, rode serenely up to
where Wayland stood, and called out: "Good morning.He perceived at once that the speaker was an alien like himself, for she
wore tan- riding-boots, a divided skirt of expensive cloth, and a
jaunty, wide-rimmed sombrero.She looked, indeed, precisely like the
heroine of the prevalent Western drama.Her sleeves, rolled to the elbow,
disclosed shapely brown arms, and her neck, bare to her bosom, was
equally sun-smit; but she was so round-cheeked, so childishly charming,
that the most critical observer could find no fault with her make-up.What are _you_ doing over here,
may I ask?"Moore, this is Norcross, one of
McFarlane's men.Moore is connected with the tie-camp operations of
the railway."Moore was a tall, thin man with a gray beard and keen blue eyes."We started together, but the horses got away, and he was obliged to go
back after them."I am frightfully hungry," interrupted the girl."Can't you hand me out a
hunk of bread and meat?"Good morning, Miss McFarlane, I didn't
know you were here.Belden, of course, you know."Belden, the fourth member of the party, a middle-aged, rather flabby
person, just being eased down from her horse, turned on Berrie with a
battery of questions.Berrie McFarlane, what are you doing
over in this forsaken hole?If Cliff
had known you was over here he'd have come, too.""Come in and get some coffee, and
we'll straighten things out."Belden did not know that Cliff and Berrie had quarreled,
for she treated the girl with maternal familiarity.She was a
good-natured, well-intentioned old sloven, but a most renowned tattler,
and the girl feared her more than she feared any other woman in the
valley.She had always avoided her, but she showed nothing of this
dislike at the moment.Wayland drew the younger woman's attention by saying: "It's plain that
you, like myself, do not belong to these parts, Miss Moore."Haven't you noticed that the women who
live out here carefully avoid convenient and artistic dress?Now your
outfit is precisely what they should wear and don't.""I know, but they all say they have to wear out their
Sunday go-to-meeting clothes, whereas I can 'rag out proper.'I'm glad
you like my 'rig.'""When I look at you," he said, "I'm back on old Broadway at the Herald
Square Theater.The play is 'Little Blossom, or the Cowgirl's Revenge.'The heroine has just come into the miner's cabin--"

"Oh, go 'long," she replied, seizing her cue and speaking in character,
"you're stringin' me."Your outfit is a peacherino," he declared.At the moment he was bent on drawing the girl's attention from Berrie,
but as she went on he came to like her.She said: "No, I don't belong
here; but I come out every year during vacation with my father.Father has built a little
bungalow down at the lower mill, and we enjoy every day of our stay.""You're a Smith girl," he abruptly asserted."Oh, there's something about you Smith girls that gives you dead away."I like Smith girls," he hastened to say; and
in five minutes they were on the friendliest terms--talking of mutual
acquaintances--a fact which both puzzled and hurt Berea.Their laughter
angered her, and whenever she glanced at them and detected Siona looking
into Wayland's face with coquettish simper, she was embittered.She was
glad when Moore came in and interrupted the dialogue.Norcross did not relax, though he considered the dangers of
cross-examination almost entirely passed.In this he was mistaken, for no
sooner was the keen edge of Mrs.Belden's hunger dulled than her
curiosity sharpened."The horses got away, and he had to go back after them," again responded
Berrie, who found the scrutiny of the other girl deeply disconcerting."Any minute now," she replied, and in this she was not deceiving them,
although she did not intend to volunteer any information which might
embarrass either Wayland or herself.It's romantic enough to be the
back-drop in a Bret Harte play."I know a Norcross, a Michigan lumberman,
Vice-President of the Association.Is he, by any chance, a relative?""Only a father," retorted Wayland, with a smile."But don't hold me
responsible for anything he has done.And what is the son of W. W.
Norcross doing out here in the Forest Service?"The change in her father's tone was not lost upon Siona, who ceased her
banter and studied the young man with deeper interest, while Mrs.Belden,
detecting some restraint in Berrie's tone, renewed her questioning:
"Where did you camp last night?""I don't see how the horses got away.There's a pasture here, for we rode
right through it."Berrie was aware that each moment of delay in explaining the situation
looked like evasion, and deepened the significance of her predicament,
and yet she could not bring herself to the task of minutely accounting
for her time during the last two days.We're
going into camp at the mouth of the West Fork," he said, as he rose."Tell Tony and the Supervisor that we want to line out that timber at the
earliest possible moment."Siona, who was now distinctly coquetting with Wayland, held out her hand."I hope you'll find time to come up and see us.I know we have other
mutual friends, if we had time to get at them."I'm not at all
sure that I shall have a moment's leave; but I will call if I can
possibly do so."They started off at last without having learned in detail anything of the
intimate relationship into which the Supervisor's daughter and young
Norcross had been thrown, and Mrs.Belden was still so much in the dark
that she called to Berrie: "I'm going to send word to Cliff that you are
over here.He'll be crazy to come the minute he finds it out.""That would be pleasant," he said, smilingly.On the contrary, she remained very
grave."I wish that old tale-bearer had kept away.She's going to make
trouble for us all.And that girl, isn't she a spectacle?She seems a very nice, sprightly person."Why does she go
around with her sleeves rolled up that way, and--and her dress open at
the throat?""Oh, those are the affectations of the moment.She wants to look tough
and boisterous.That's the fad with all the girls, just now.It's only a
harmless piece of foolishness."She could not tell him how deeply she resented his ready tone of
camaraderie with the other girl; but she was secretly suffering.It hurt
her to think that he could forget his aches and be so free and easy with
a stranger at a moment's notice.Under the influence of that girl's smile
he seemed to have quite forgotten his exhaustion and his pain.It was
wonderful how cheerful he had been while she was in sight.In all this Berrie did him an injustice.He had been keenly conscious,
during every moment of the time, not only of his bodily ills, but of
Berrie, and he had kept a brave face in order that he might prevent
further questioning on the part of a malicious girl.It was his only way
of being heroic.Now that the crisis was passed he was quite as much of a
wreck as ever."I hope they won't happen to meet father on the
trail.""Perhaps I should go with them and warn him.""Oh, it doesn't matter," she wearily answered.Belden will
never rest till she finds out just where we've been, and just what we've
done.He understood her fear, and yet he was unable to comfort her in the only
way she could be comforted.That brief encounter with Siona Moore--a girl
of his own world--had made all thought of marriage with Berea suddenly
absurd.Without losing in any degree the sense of gratitude he felt for
her protecting care, and with full acknowledgment of her heroic support
of his faltering feet, he revolted from putting into words a proposal of
marriage."I love her," he confessed to himself, "and she is a dear,
brave girl; but I do not love her as a man should love the woman he is to
marry."Berea sensed the change in
his attitude, and traced it to the influence of the coquette whose
smiling eyes and bared arms had openly challenged admiration.It saddened
her to think that one so fine as he had seemed could yield even momentary
tribute to an open and silly coquette.IX

FURTHER PERPLEXITIES


Wayland, for his part, was not deceived by Siona Moore.He knew her kind,
and understood her method of attack.He liked her pert ways, for they
brought back his days at college, when dozens of just such misses lent
grace and humor and romance to the tennis court and to the football
field.She carried with her the aroma of care-free, athletic girlhood.Flirtation was in her as charming and almost as meaningless as the
preening of birds on the bank of a pool in the meadow.Speaking aloud, he said: "Miss Moore travels the trail with all known
accessories, and I've no doubt she thinks she is a grand campaigner; but
I am wondering how she would stand such a trip as that you took last
night.I don't believe she could have done as well as I. She's the
imitation--you're the real thing."The praise involved in this speech brought back a little of Berrie's
humor."I reckon those brown boots of hers would have melted," she said,
with quaint smile."If it had not been for you, dear girl, I would be
lying up there in the forest this minute.Nothing but your indomitable
spirit kept me moving.I shall be deeply hurt if any harm comes to you on
account of me.""If it hadn't been for me you wouldn't have started on that trip last
night.It would have been better for us both if
we had stayed in camp, for we wouldn't have met these people.""That's true," he replied; "but we didn't know that at the time.We acted
for the best, and we must not blame ourselves, no matter what comes of
it."They fell silent at this point, for each was again conscious of their new
relationship.She, vaguely suffering, waited for him to resume the
lover's tone, while he, oppressed by the sense of his own shortcomings
and weakness, was planning an escape."It's all nonsense, my remaining in
the forest.I'll tell McFarlane
so and get out."Perceiving his returning weakness and depression, Berea insisted on his
lying down again while she set to work preparing dinner."There is no
telling when father will get here," she said."And Tony will be hungry
when he comes.He obeyed her silently, and, going to the bunk, at once fell asleep.How
long he slept he could not tell, but he was awakened by the voice of the
ranger, who was standing in the doorway and regarding Berrie with a
round-eyed stare.He was a tall, awkward fellow of about thirty-five, plainly of the
frontier type; but a man of intelligence.At the end of a brief
explanation Berrie said, with an air of authority: "Now you'd better ride
up the trail and bring our camp outfit down.We can't go back that way,
anyhow.""All right, Miss Berrie, but perhaps
your tenderfoot needs a doctor."I'm a
little lame, that's all.Get up
your horses, Tony, and by that time I'll have some dinner ready.""All right, Miss Berrie," replied the man, and turned away.Hardly had he crossed the bridge on his way to the pasture, when Berrie
cried out: "There comes daddy."Wayland joined her at the door, and stood beside her watching the
Supervisor, as he came zigzagging down the steep hill to the east, with
all his horses trailing behind him roped together head-to-tail."He's had to come round by Lost Lake," she exclaimed."He'll be tired
out, and absolutely starved.she shouted in greeting, and the
Supervisor waved his hand.There was something superb in the calm seat of the veteran as he slid
down the <DW72>.He kept his place in the saddle with the air of the rider
to whom hunger, fatigue, windfalls, and snowslides were all a part of the
day's work; and when he reined in before the door and dropped from his
horse, he put his arm about his daughter's neck with quiet word: "I
thought I'd find you here."All right, daddy; but what about you?The blamed cayuses kept just ahead of me all
the way."I couldn't get back over the high pass.Had to
go round by Lost Lake, and to cap all, Old Baldy took a notion not to
lead.Oh, I've had a peach of a time; but here I am."Yes, they're in camp up the trail.He and Alec Belden and two women.Norcross, take my horses down to the pasture.""Let me do that, daddy, Mr.You see, we started down here late yesterday afternoon.It was
raining and horribly muddy, and I took the wrong trail.The darkness
caught us and we didn't reach the station till nearly midnight.""I guess I made a mistake, Supervisor;
I'm not fitted for this strenuous life.""I didn't intend to pitchfork you into
the forest life quite so suddenly," he said.Nevertheless Wayland went out, believing that Berrie wished to be alone
with her father for a short time.As he took his seat McFarlane said: "You stayed in camp till yesterday
afternoon, did you?""Yes, we were expecting you every moment.""Yes, a little; it mostly rained.""It stormed up on the divide like a January blizzard."I'll ride right up and see them.That's at the
lake, I reckon?""Yes, I was just sending Tony after it.But, father, if you go up to
Moore's camp, don't say too much about what has happened.Don't tell them
just when you took the back-trail, and just how long Wayland and I were
in camp.""Because--You know what an old gossip Mrs.She's an awful talker, and our being
together up there all that time will give her a chance."A light broke in on the Supervisor's brain.In the midst of his
preoccupation as a forester he suddenly became the father.His eyes
narrowed and his face darkened.The old rip could make a
whole lot of capital out of your being left in camp that way.At the same
time I don't believe in dodging.The worst thing we could do would be to
try to blind the trail."No, he was down the valley after his mail.""That's another piece of bad luck, too.How much
does the old woman know at present?""Didn't she cross-examine you?""Sure she did; but Wayland side-tracked her.She'll know all about it sooner or later.She's great at putting
two and two together."Cliff will be plumb crazy if she gets his ear first.""I don't care anything about Cliff, daddy.I don't care what he thinks or
does, if he will only let Wayland alone.""See here, daughter, you do seem to be terribly interested in this
tourist.""He's the finest man I ever knew, father."He looked at her with tender, trusting glance."He isn't your kind,
daughter.He's a nice clean boy, but he's different.I know he's different, that's why I like
him."After a pause she added: "Nobody could have been nicer all through
these days than he has been.McFarlane fixed a keen glance upon her."Not the way you mean, daddy; but I think he--likes me.He's the son of W. W. Norcross, that big
Michigan lumberman."Moore asked him if he was any relation to W.W.Norcross, and he
said, 'Yes, a son.'You should have seen how that Moore girl changed her
tune the moment he admitted that.She'd been very free with him up to
that time; but when she found out he was a rich man's son she became as
quiet and innocent as a kitten.I hate her; she's a deceitful snip.""Well, now, daughter, that being the case, it's all the more certain that
he don't belong to our world, and you mustn't fix your mind on keeping
him here.""A girl can't help fixing her mind, daddy."You liked
him well enough to promise to marry him.""I know I did; but I despise him now."He isn't so much to blame after all.Any man is likely to
flare out when he finds another fellow cutting in ahead of him.Why, here
you are wanting to kill Siona Moore just for making up to your young
tourist."But the thing we've got to guard against is
old lady Belden's tongue.She and that Belden gang have it in for me, and
all that has kept them from open war has been Cliff's relationship to
you.They'll take a keen delight in making the worst of all this camping
business.""I wish your mother was here
this minute.I guess we had better cut out this timber cruise and go
right back.""No, you mustn't do that; that would only make more talk.It won't take you but a couple of days to
do the work, and Wayland needs the rest.""But suppose Cliff hears of this business between you and Norcross and
comes galloping over the ridge?""Well, let him, he has no claim on me.""It's all mighty risky business, and it's my fault.I
should never have permitted you to start on this trip.""Don't you worry about me, daddy, I'll pull through somehow.Anybody that
knows me will understand how little there is in--in old lady Belden's
gab.I've had a beautiful trip, and I won't let her nor anybody else
spoil it for me."He was afraid to
meet the Beldens.He dreaded their questions, their innuendoes.He had
perfect faith in his daughter's purity and honesty, and he liked and
trusted Norcross, and yet he knew that should Belden find it to his
advantage to slander these young people, and to read into their action
the lawlessness of his own youth, Berea's reputation, high as it was,
would suffer, and her mother's heart be rent with anxiety.In his growing
pain and perplexity he decided to speak frankly to young Norcross
himself."He's a gentleman, and knows the way of the world.Perhaps he'll
have some suggestion to offer."In his heart he hoped to learn that
Wayland loved his daughter and wished to marry her.Wayland was down on the bridge leaning over the rail, listening to the
song of the water.McFarlane approached gravely, but when he spoke it was in his usual soft
monotone.Norcross," he began, with candid inflection, "I am very
sorry to say it; but I wish you and my daughter had never started on this
trip.""I know what you mean, Supervisor, and I feel as you do about it.Of
course, none of us foresaw any such complication as this, but now that we
are snarled up in it we'll have to make the best of it.The youth's frank words and his sympathetic voice disarmed McFarlane
completely."It's no use
saying _if_," he remarked, at length."What we've got to meet is Seth
Belden's report--Berrie has cut loose from Cliff, and he's red-headed
already.When he drops onto this story, when he learns that I had to
chase back after the horses, and that you and Berrie were alone together
for three days, he'll have a fine club to swing, and he'll swing it; and
Alec will help him.They're all waiting a chance to get me, and they're
mean enough to get me through my girl.""I'll try to head off Marm Belden, and I'll have a
talk with Moore."But you forget there's another tale-bearer.There's no
use trying to cover anything up."Here was the place for Norcross to speak up and say: "Never mind, I'm
going to ask Berrie to be my wife."Something rose
in his throat which prevented speech.A strange repugnance, a kind of
sullen resentment at being forced into a declaration, kept him silent,
and McFarlane, disappointed, wondering and hurt, kept silence also."Of course those who know your daughter
will not listen for an instant to the story of an unclean old thing like
Mrs."I'm not so sure about that," replied the father, gloomily."People
always listen to such stories, and a girl always gets the worst of a
situation like this.Berrie's been brought up to take care of herself,
and she's kept clear of criticism so far; but with Cliff on edge and this
old rip snooping around--" His mind suddenly changed."Your being the son
of a rich man won't help any.Why didn't you tell me who you were?"I have
nothing to do with my father's business.His notions of forest
speculation are not mine.""It would have made a difference with me, and it might have made a
difference with Berrie.She mightn't have been so free with you at the
start, if she'd known who you were.You looked sick and kind of lonesome,
and that worked on her sympathy.""I _was_ sick and I was lonesome, and she has been very sweet and lovely
to me, and it breaks my heart to think that her kindness and your
friendship should bring all this trouble and suspicion upon her.Let's go
up to the Moore camp and have it out with them.I'll make any statement
you think best.""I reckon the less said about it the better," responded the older man."I'm going up to the camp, but not to talk about my daughter.""If they do, I'll force them to let it alone," retorted McFarlane; but he
went away disappointed and sorrowful.The young man's evident avoidance
of the subject of marriage hurt him.He did not perceive, as Norcross
did, that to make an announcement of his daughter's engagement at this
moment would be taken as a confession of shameful need.It is probable
that Berrie herself would not have seen this further complication.Each hour added to Wayland's sense of helplessness and bitterness.I can neither help Berrie nor help myself.Nothing remains for
me but flight, and flight will also be a confession of guilt."Once again, and in far more definite terms, he perceived the injustice of
the world toward women.Here with Berrie, as in ages upon ages of other
times, the maiden must bear the burden of reproach."In me it will be
considered a joke, a romantic episode, in her a degrading misdemeanor.When he re-entered the cabin the Supervisor had returned from the camp,
and something in his manner, as well as in Berrie's, revealed the fact
that the situation had not improved."They forced me into a corner," McFarlane said to Wayland, peevishly."I
lied out of one night; but they know that you were here last night.Of
course, they were respectful enough so long as I had an eye on them, but
their tongues are wagging now."The rest of the evening was spent in talk on the forest, and in going
over the ranger's books, for the Supervisor continued to plan for
Wayland's stay at this station, and the young fellow thought it best not
to refuse at the moment.As bedtime drew near Settle took a blanket and went to the corral, and
Berrie insisted that her father and Wayland occupy the bunk.Norcross protested; but the Supervisor said: "Let her alone.She's better
able to sleep on the floor than either of us."This was perfectly true; but, in spite of his bruised and aching body,
the youth would gladly have taken her place beside the stove.It seemed
pitifully unjust that she should have this physical hardship in addition
to her uneasiness of mind.X

THE CAMP ON THE PASS


Berea suffered a restless night, the most painful and broken she had
known in all her life.She acknowledged that Siona Moore was prettier,
and that she stood more nearly on Wayland's plane than herself; but the
realization of this fact did not bring surrender--she was not of that
temper.All her life she had been called upon to combat the elements, to
hold her own amidst rude men and inconsiderate women, and she had no
intention of yielding her place to a pert coquette, no matter what the
gossips might say.She had seen this girl many times, but had refused to
visit her house.She had held her in contempt, now she quite cordially
hated her."She shall not have her way with Wayland," she decided."I know what she
wants--she wants him at her side to-morrow; but I will not have it so.She is trying to get him away from me."The more she dwelt on this the hotter her jealous fever burned.The floor
on which she lay was full of knots.She could not lose herself in sleep,
tired as she was.The planks no longer turned their soft spots to her
flesh, and she rolled from side to side in torment.She would have arisen
and dressed only she did not care to disturb the men."I shall go home the morrow and take
Wayland with me.I will not have him going with that girl--that's
settled!"The very thought of his taking Siona's hand in greeting angered
her beyond reason.She had put Cliff Belden completely out of her mind, and this was
characteristic of her.She had no divided interests, no subtleties, no
subterfuges.Forthright, hot-blooded, frank and simple, she had centered
all her care, all her desires, on this pale youth whose appeal was at
once mystic and maternal; but her pity was changing to something deeper,
for she was convinced that he was gaining in strength, that he was in no
danger of relapse.The hard trip of the day before had seemingly done him
no permanent injury; on the contrary, a few hours' rest had almost
restored him to his normal self."To-morrow he will be able to ride
again."And this thought reconciled her to her hard bed.She did not look
beyond the long, delicious day which they must spend in returning to the
Springs.She fell asleep at last, and was awakened only by her father tinkering
about the stove.She rose alertly, signing to the Supervisor not to disturb her patient.However, Norcross also heard the rattle of the poker, opened his eyes and
regarded Berrie with sleepy smile."Good morning, if it _is_ morning," he
said, slowly.How could I have overslept like this?Makes me think
of the Irishman who, upon being awakened to an early breakfast like this,
ate it, then said to his employer, an extra thrifty farmer, 'Two suppers
in wan night--and hurrah for bed again.'""I feel like a hound-pup, to
be snoring on a downy couch like this while you were roughing it on the
floor.That is, I'm sore here and there, but I'm
feeling wonderfully well.Do you know, I begin to hope that I can finally
dominate the wilderness.Wouldn't it be wonderful if I got so I could
ride and walk as you do, for instance?The fact that I'm not dead this
morning is encouraging."He drew on his shoes as he talked, while she
went about her toilet, which was quite as simple as his own.She had
spent two nights in her day dress with almost no bathing facilities; but
that didn't trouble her.She washed her face
and hands in Settle's tin basin, but drew the line at his rubber comb.There was a distinct charm in seeing her thus adapting herself to the
cabin, a charm quite as powerful as that which emanated from Siona
Moore's dainty and theatrical personality.What it was he could not
define, but the forester's daughter had something primeval about her,
something close to the soil, something which aureoles the old Saxon
words--_wife_ and _home_ and _fireplace_.Seeing her through the savory
steam of the bacon she was frying, he forgot her marvelous skill as
horsewoman and pathfinder, and thought of her only as the housewife.She
belonged here, in this cabin.She was fitted to this landscape, whereas
the other woman was alien and dissonant.He moved his arms about and shook his legs with comical effect of trying
to see if they were still properly hinged.No one can accuse me of being a 'lunger' now.Last night's sleep
has made a new man of me.I've met the forest and it is mine.""I'm mighty glad to hear you say
that.I was terribly afraid that long, hard walk in the rain had been too
much for you.I reckon you're all right for the work now."He recalled, as she spoke, her anguish of pity while they stood in the
darkness of the trail, and it seemed that he could go no farther, and he
said, soberly: "It must have seemed to you one while as if I were all in."You mustn't try any more such
stunts--not for a few weeks, anyway.He went out into the morning exultantly, and ran down to the river to
bathe his face and hands, allured by its splendid voice.The world seemed
very bright and beautiful and health-giving once more.As soon as she was alone with her father, Berrie said: "I'm going home
to-day, dad.""I can't say I blame you any.This
has been a rough trip; but we'll go up and bring down the outfit, and
then we men can sleep in the tent and let you have the bunk--you'll be
comfortable to-night.""Oh, I don't mind sleeping on the floor," she replied; "but I want to get
back.Another thing, you'd better use
Mr.Norcross at the Springs instead of leaving him here with Tony.""Well, he isn't quite well enough to run the risk.It's a long way from
here to a doctor.""He 'pears to be on deck this morning.Besides, I haven't anything in the
office to offer him."Landon needs help, and he's a better
forester than Tony, anyway.""Cliff will reach him if he wants to--no matter where
he is.And then, too, Landon likes Mr.Norcross and will see that he is
not abused."McFarlane ruminated over her suggestion, well knowing that she was
planning this change in order that she might have Norcross a little
nearer, a little more accessible."I don't know but you're right.Landon is almost as good a hustler as
Tony, and a much better forester.I thought of sending Norcross up there
at first, but he told me that Frank and his gang had it in for him.Of
course, he's only nominally in the service; but I want him to begin
right.""I want him to ride back with me to-day.""Do you think that a wise thing to
do?"We'll start early and ride straight through.""You'll have to go by Lost Lake, and that means a long, hard hike.It's the walking at a high altitude that does him
up.Furthermore, Cliff may turn up here, and I don't want another
mix-up.""I ought to go back with you; but Moore is over
here to line out a cutting, and I must stay on for a couple of days."No, Tony would be a nuisance and would do no good.Another day on the
trail won't add to Mrs.If she wants to be mean she's got
all the material for it already."McFarlane, perceiving that she had set her
heart on this ride, and having perfect faith in her skill and judgment on
the trail, finally said: "Well, if you do so, the quicker you start the
better.With the best of luck you can't pull in before eight o'clock, and
you'll have to ride hard to do that.""If I find we can't make it I'll pull into a ranch.When Wayland came in the Supervisor inquired: "Do you feel able to ride
back over the hill to-day?"It isn't the riding that uses me up; it is the walking;
and, besides, as candidate for promotion I must obey orders--especially
orders to march."They breakfasted hurriedly, and while McFarlane and Tony were bringing in
the horses Wayland and Berrie set the cabin to rights.Working thus side
by side, she recovered her dominion over him, and at the same time
regained her own cheerful self-confidence.he exclaimed, as he watched her deft adjustment of the
dishes and furniture."I have to be to hold my job," she laughingly replied."A feller must
play all the parts when he's up here."It was still early morning as they mounted and set off up the trail; but
Moore's camp was astir, and as McFarlane turned in--much against Berrie's
will--the lumberman and his daughter both came out to meet them."Come in
and have some breakfast," said Siona, with cordial inclusiveness, while
her eyes met Wayland's glance with mocking glee."Thank you," said McFarlane, "we can't stop.I'm going to set my daughter
over the divide.She has had enough camping, and Norcross is pretty well
battered up, so I'm going to help them across.I'll be back to-night, and
we'll take our turn up the valley to-morrow.Berrie did not mind her father's explanation; on the contrary, she took a
distinct pleasure in letting the other girl know of the long and intimate
day she was about to spend with her young lover.Siona, too adroit to display her disappointment, expressed polite regret."I hope you won't get storm-bound," she said, showing her white teeth in
a meaning smile."If there is any sign of a storm we won't cross," declared McFarlane."We're going round by the lower pass, anyhow.If I'm not here by dark,
you may know I've stayed to set 'em down at the Mill."There was charm in Siona's alert poise, and in the neatness of her camp
dress.Her dainty tent, with its stools and rugs, made the wilderness
seem but a park.She reminded Norcross of the troops of tourists of the
Tyrol, and her tent was of a kind to harmonize with the tea-houses on the
path to the summit of the Matterhorn.Then, too, something triumphantly
feminine shone in her bright eyes and glowed in her softly rounded
cheeks.Her hand was little and pointed, not fitted like Berrie's for
tightening a cinch or wielding an ax, and as he said "Good-by," he added:
"I hope I shall see you again soon," and at the moment he meant it."We'll return to the Springs in a few days," she replied.Our bungalow is on the other side of the river--and you, too," she
addressed Berrie; but her tone was so conventionally polite that the
ranch-girl, burning with jealous heat, made no reply.McFarlane led the way to the lake rapidly and in silence.The splendors
of the foliage, subdued by the rains, the grandeur of the peaks, the song
of the glorious stream--all were lost on Berrie, for she now felt herself
to be nothing but a big, clumsy, coarse-handed tomboy.Her worn gloves,
her faded skirt, and her man's shoes had been made hateful to her by that
smug, graceful, play-acting tourist with the cool, keen eyes and smirking
lips."She pretends to be a kitten; but she isn't; she's a sly grown-up
cat," she bitterly accused, but she could not deny the charm of her
personality.Wayland was forced to acknowledge that Berrie in this dark mood was not
the delightful companion she had hitherto been.Something sweet and
confiding had gone out of their relationship, and he was too keen-witted
not to know what it was.He estimated precisely the value of the
malicious parting words of Siona Moore."She's a natural tease, the kind
of woman who loves to torment other and less fortunate women.She cares
nothing for me, of course, it's just her way of paying off old scores.It
would seem that Berrie has not encouraged her advances in times past."That Berrie was suffering, and that her jealousy touchingly proved the
depth of her love for him, brought no elation, only perplexity.As a companion on the trail she had been a
joy--as a jealous sweetheart she was less admirable.He realized
perfectly that this return journey was of her arrangement, not
McFarlane's, and while he was not resentful of her care, he was in doubt
of the outcome.It hurried him into a further intimacy which might prove
embarrassing.At the camp by the lake the Supervisor became sharply commanding."Now
let's throw these packs on lively.It will be slippery on the high trail,
and you'll just naturally have to hit leather hard and keep jouncing if
you reach the wagon-road before dark.Don't you worry about
that for a minute.Once I get out of the green timber the dark won't
worry me.In packing the camp stuff on the saddles, Berrie, almost as swift and
powerful as her father, acted with perfect understanding of every task,
and Wayland's admiration of her skill increased mightily."We don't need you," she said.McFarlane's faith in his daughter had been tested many times, and yet he
was a little loath to have her start off on a trail new to her.He argued
against it briefly, but she laughed at his fears."I can go anywhere you
can," she said."You'll have to keep off the boggy meadows," he warned; "these rains will
have softened all those muck-holes on the other side; they'll be
bottomless pits; watch out for 'em.Keep in touch with Landon,
and if anybody turns up from the district office say I'll be back on
Friday.Berea led the way, and Norcross fell in behind the pack-horses, feeling
as unimportant as a small boy at the heels of a circus parade.His girl
captain was so competent, so self-reliant, and so sure that nothing he
could say or do assisted in the slightest degree.Her leadership was a
curiously close reproduction of her father's unhurried and graceful
action.Her seat in the saddle was as easy as Landon's, and her eyes were
alert to every rock and stream in the road.She was at home here, where
the other girl would have been a bewildered child, and his words of
praise lifted the shadow from her face.The sky was cloudy, and a delicious feeling of autumn was in the
air--autumn that might turn to winter with a passing cloud, and the
forest was dankly gloomy and grimly silent, save from the roaring stream
which ran at times foam-white with speed.The high peaks, gray and
streaked with new-fallen snow, shone grandly, bleakly through the firs.The radiant beauty of the road from the Springs, the golden glow of four
days before was utterly gone, and yet there was exultation in this ride.A distinct pleasure, a delight of another sort, lay in thus daring the
majesty of an unknown wind-swept pass.Wayland called out: "The air feels like Thanksgiving morning, doesn't
it?""It _is_ Thanksgiving for me, and I'm going to get a grouse for dinner,"
she replied; and in less than an hour the snap of her rifle made good her
promise.After leaving the upper lake she turned to the right and followed the
course of a swift and splendid stream, which came churning through a
cheerless, mossy swamp of spruce-trees.Inexperienced as he was, Wayland
knew that this was not a well-marked trail; but his confidence in his
guide was too great to permit of any worry over the pass, and he amused
himself by watching the water-robins as they flitted from stone to stone
in the torrent, and in calculating just where he would drop a line for
trout if he had time to do so, and in recovered serenity enjoyed his
ride.Gradually he put aside his perplexities concerning the future,
permitting his mind to prefigure nothing but his duties with Landon at
Meeker's Mill.He was rather glad of the decision to send him there, for it promised
absorbing sport."I shall see how Landon and Belden work out their
problem," he said.He had no fear of Frank Meeker now."As a forest guard
with official duties to perform I can meet that young savage on other and
more nearly equal terms," he assured himself.The trail grew slippery and in places ran full of water."But there's a
bottom, somewhere," Berrie confidently declared, and pushed ahead with
resolute mien.It was noon when they rose above timber and entered upon
the wide, smooth <DW72>s of the pass.Snow filled the grass here, and the
wind, keen, cutting, unhindered, came out of the desolate west with
savage fury; but the sun occasionally shone through the clouds with vivid
splendor."It is December now," shouted Wayland, as he put on his slicker
and cowered low to his saddle."We will make it Christmas dinner," she laughed, and her glowing good
humor warmed his heart.As they rose, the view became magnificent, wintry, sparkling.The great
clouds, drifting like ancient warships heavy with armament, sent down
chill showers of hail over the frosted gold of the grassy <DW72>s; but
when the shadows passed the sunlight descended in silent cataracts
deliriously spring-like.The conies squeaked from the rocky ridges, and a
brace of eagles circling about a lone crag, as if exulting in their
sovereign mastery of the air, screamed in shrill ecstatic duo.The sheer
cliffs, on their shadowed sides, were violently purple.Everywhere the
landscape exhibited crashing contrasts of primary pigments which bit into
consciousness like the flare of a martial band.The youth would have lingered in spite of the cold; but the girl kept
steadily on, knowing well that the hardest part of their journey was
still before them, and he, though longing to ride by her side, and to
enjoy the views with her, was forced to remain in the rear in order to
hurry the reluctant pack-animals forward.They had now reached a point
twelve thousand feet above the sea, and range beyond range, to the west
and south, rose into sight like stupendous waves of a purple-green sea.To the east the park lay level as a floor and carpeted in tawny velvet.It was nearly two o'clock when they began to drop down behind the rocky
ridges of the eastern <DW72>, and soon, in the bottom of a warm and
sheltered hollow just at timber-line, Berrie drew her horse to a stand
and slipped from the saddle."We'll rest here an hour," she said, "and
cook our grouse; or are you too hungry to wait?""I can wait," he answered, dramatically."But it seems as if I had never
eaten.""Well, then, we'll save the grouse till to-morrow; but I'll make some
coffee.You bring some water while I start a fire."And so, while the tired horses cropped the russet grass, she boiled some
coffee and laid out some bread and meat, while he sat by watching her and
absorbing the beauty of the scene, the charm of the hour."It is exactly
like a warm afternoon in April," he said, "and here are some of the
spring flowers.""There now, sit by and eat," she said, with humor; and in perfectly
restored tranquillity they ate and drank, with no thought of critics or
of rivals.They were alone, and content to be so.It was deliciously sweet and restful there in that sunny hollow on the
breast of the mountain.The wind swept through the worn branches of the
dwarfed spruce with immemorial wistfulness; but these young souls heard
it only as a far-off song.Side by side on the soft Alpine clover they
rested and talked, looking away at the shining peaks, and down over the
dark-green billows of fir beneath them.Half the forest was under their
eyes at the moment, and the man said: "Is it not magnificent!It makes me
proud of my country.Just think, all this glorious spread of hill and
valley is under your father's direction.I may say under _your_
direction, for I notice he does just about what you tell him to do.""If I were a man I'd rather be
Supervisor of this forest than Congressman.""Nash says you _are_ the Supervisor.I wonder if
your father realizes how efficient you are?Does he ever sorrow over your
not being a boy?""You're a good deal like a son to him, I imagine.You can do about all
that a boy can do, anyhow--more than I could ever do.Does he realize how
much you have to do with the management of his forest?I really believe you _could_ carry on the work as well as
he.""You seem to think I'm a district forester in
disguise.""I have eyes, Miss Supervisor, and also ears--which leads me to ask: Why
don't you clean out that saloon gang?Landon is sure there's crooked work
going on at that mill--certainly that open bar is a disgraceful and
corrupting thing.""We've tried to cut out that saloon, but it can't be
done.You see, it's on a patented claim--the claim was bogus, of course,
and we've made complaint, but the matter is hung up, and that gives 'em a
chance to go on.""Well, let's not talk of that.It's too delicious an hour for any
question of business.I wish I could write
what I feel this moment.Why don't we camp here and watch the sun go down
and the moon rise?From our lofty vantage-ground the coming of dawn would
be an epic.""We mustn't think of that," she protested.The wind in
the pines, the sunshine, the conies crying from their rocks, the
butterflies on the clover--my heart aches with the beauty of it.Even that staggering walk in the rain had its
splendid quality.I couldn't see the poetry in it then; but I do now.These few days have made us comrades, haven't they--comrades of the
trail?They are like steel, and yet they are feminine.""I'm ashamed of my hands--they are so big and
rough and dingy.""They're brown, of course, and calloused--a little--but they are not big,
and they are beautifully modeled.""I am
wondering how you would look in conventional dress.""I'd look like a gawk in one of those
low-necked outfits.I'd never dare--and those tight skirts would sure
<DW36> me."You'd have to modify your stride a little; but
you'd negotiate it.You're the kind of American girl that can
go anywhere and do anything.My sisters would mortgage their share of the
golden streets for your abounding health--and so would I.""You are all right now," she smiled."You don't look or talk as you
did."He lifted a spread hand as if to clutch and hold
something."I feel it soaking into me like some magical oil.No more
moping and whining for me.I've proved that hardship is good for me.""Don't crow till you're out of the woods.It's a long ride down the hill,
and going down is harder on the tenderfoot than going up."All I need is another trip like this with
you and I shall be a master trailer."All this was very sweet to her, and though she knew they should be going,
she lingered.Childishly reckless of the sinking sun, she played with the
wild flowers at her side and listened to his voice in complete content.The hour was too beautiful to be shortened, although she
saw no reason why others equally delightful might not come to them both.He was more of the lover than he had ever been before, that she knew, and
in the light of his eyes all that was not girlish and charming melted
away.She forgot her heavy shoes, her rough hands and sun-tanned face,
and listened with wondering joy and pride to his words, which were of a
fineness such as she had never heard spoken--only books contained such
unusual and exquisite phrases.A cloud passing across the sun flung down a shadow of portentous chill
and darkness.She started to her feet with startled recollection of the
place and the hour."We _must_ be going--at once!"I
have perfect confidence in your woodcraft.Why not spend another night on
the trail?He tempted her strongly, so frank and boyish and lovable were his glances
and his words.But she was vaguely afraid of herself, and though the long
ride at the moment seemed hard and dull, the thought of her mother
waiting decided her action."Suppose I refuse--suppose I
decide to stay here?"Upon her, as he talked, a sweet hesitation fell, a dream which held more
of happiness than she had ever known."It is a long, hard ride," she
thought, "and another night on the trail will not matter."And so the
moments passed on velvet feet, and still she lingered, reluctant to break
the spell.Suddenly, into their idyllic drowse of content, so sweet, so youthful,
and so pure of heart, broke the sound of a horse's hurrying, clashing,
steel-shod feet, and looking up Berrie saw a mounted man coming down the
mountainside with furious, reckless haste.And into her face came
a look of alarm."He's mad--he's
dangerous!Leave him to me," she added, in a low, tense voice.XI

THE DEATH-GRAPPLE


There was something so sinister in the rider's disregard of stone and
tree and pace, something so menacing in the forward thrust of his body,
that Berrie was able to divine his wrath, and was smitten into
irresolution--all her hardy, boyish self-reliance swallowed up in the
weakness of the woman.She forgot the pistol at her belt, and awaited the
assault with rigid pose.As Belden neared them Norcross also perceived that the rider's face was
distorted with passion, and that his glance was not directed upon Berrie,
but upon himself, and he braced himself for the attack.Leaving his saddle with one flying leap, which the cowboy practises at
play, Belden hurled himself upon his rival with the fury of a panther.The slender youth went down before the big rancher as though struck by a
catapult; and the force of his fall against the stony earth stunned him
so that he lay beneath his enemy as helpless as a child.[Illustration: THE SLENDER YOUTH WENT DOWN BEFORE THE BIG RANCHER
AS THOUGH STRUCK BY A CATAPULT]

Belden snarled between his teeth: "I told you I'd kill you, and I will."With a
cry of pain, of anger, she flung herself on the maddened man's back.Her
hands encircled his neck like a collar of bronze.Hardened by incessant
use of the cinch and the rope, her fingers sank into the sinews of his
great throat, shutting off both blood and breath."Let go, or I'll choke
the life out of you!He raised a hand to beat her off, but she was too strong, too desperate
to be driven away.She was as blind to pain as a mother eagle, and bent
above him so closely that he could not bring the full weight of his fist
to bear.With one determined hand still clutching his throat, she ran the
fingers of her other hand into his hair and twisted his head upward with
a power which he could not resist.And so, looking into his upturned,
ferocious eyes, she repeated with remorseless fury: "_Let go_, I say!"His swollen face grew rigid, his mouth gaped, his tongue protruded, and
at last, releasing his hold on his victim, he rose, flinging Berrie off
with a final desperate effort.Up to this moment the girl had felt no fear of herself; but now she
resorted to other weapons.Snatching her pistol from its holster, she
leveled it at his forehead.she said; and something in her voice
froze him into calm.He was not a fiend; he was not a deliberate
assassin; he was only a jealous, despairing, insane lover, and as he
looked into the face he knew so well, and realized that nothing but hate
and deadly resolution lit the eyes he had so often kissed, his heart gave
way, and, dropping his head, he said: "Kill me if you want to.There was something unreal, appalling in this sudden reversion to
weakness, and Berrie could not credit his remorse."Give me your gun,"
she said.He surrendered it to her and she threw it aside; then turned to Wayland,
who was lying white and still with face upturned to the sky.With a moan
of anguish she bent above him and called upon his name.He did not stir,
and when she lifted his head to her lap his hair, streaming with blood,
stained her dress.She kissed him and called again to him, then turned
with accusing frenzy to Belden: "You've killed him!The agony, the fury of hate in her voice reached the heart of the
conquered man.He raised his head and stared at her with mingled fear and
remorse.And so across that limp body these two souls, so lately lovers,
looked into each other's eyes as though nothing but words of hate and
loathing had ever passed between them.The girl saw in him only a savage,
vengeful, bloodthirsty beast; the man confronted in her an accusing
angel."I didn't mean to kill him," he muttered.You crushed his life out with your big
hands--and now I'm going to kill you for it!"Some far-off ancestral deep of passion
called for blood revenge.She lifted the weapon with steady hand and
pointed it at his heart.His head drooped, his glance
wavered."I'd sooner die than
live--now."His words, his tone, brought back to her a vision of the man he had
seemed when she first met and admired him.Her hand fell, the woman in
her reasserted itself.A wave of weakness, of indecision, of passionate
grief overwhelmed her.His glance wandered to his horse, serenely cropping
the grass in utter disregard of this tumultuous human drama; but the
wind, less insensate than the brute, swept through the grove of dwarfed,
distorted pines with a desolate, sympathetic moan which filled the man's
heart with a new and exalted sorrow.But Berrie was now too deep in her own desolation to care what he said or
did.She kissed the cold lips of the still youth, murmuring passionately:
"I don't care to live without you--I shall go with you!"Belden's hand was on her wrist before she could raise her weapon."Don't,
for God's sake, don't do that!Again she bent to the quiet face on which the sunlight fell with mocking
splendor.It seemed all a dream till she felt once more the stain of his
blood upon her hands.Only just now he
was exulting over the warmth and beauty of the day--and now--

How beautiful he was.The conies crying from their
runways suddenly took on poignant pathos.They appeared to be grieving
with her; but the eagles spoke of revenge.A sharp cry, a note of joy sprang from her lips.I saw
his eyelids quiver--quick!The man leaped to his feet, and, running down to the pool, filled his
sombrero with icy water.He was as eager now to save his rival as he had
been mad to destroy him.But she would not
permit him to touch the body.Again, while splashing the water upon his face, the girl called upon her
love to return.The wounded man did, indeed, open his eyes, but his look was a blank,
uncomprehending stare, which plunged her back into despair.She now perceived the source of
the blood upon her arm.It came from a wound in the boy's head which had
been dashed upon a stone.The sight of this wound brought back the blaze of accusing anger to her
eyes.Then by sudden
shift she bent to the sweet face in her arms and kissed it passionately.He opened his eyes once more, quietly, and looked up into her face with a
faint, drowsy smile.He could not yet locate himself in space and time,
but he knew her and was comforted.He wondered why he should be looking
up into a sunny sky.He heard the wind and the sound of a horse cropping
grass, and the voice of the girl penetratingly sweet as that of a young
mother calling her baby back to life, and slowly his benumbed brain began
to resolve the mystery.Belden, forgotten, ignored as completely as the conies, sat with choking
throat and smarting eyes.For him the world was only dust and ashes--a
ruin which his own barbaric spirit had brought upon itself.Slowly the youth's eyes took on expression."Yes, dearest," she assured him.Then to Belden, "He knows where he is!"He turned slightly and observed the other man looking down at her with
dark and tragic glance."Hello, Belden," he said, feebly.Then noting Berrie's look, he added: "I remember."Why didn't you finish the
job?"I don't care for anybody
now you are coming back to me."Wayland wonderingly regarded the face of the girl."And you--are you
hurt?"She turned to Belden with
quick, authoritative command."Unsaddle the horses and set up the tent.We won't be able to leave here to-night."He rose with instant obedience, glad of a chance to serve her, and soon
had the tent pegged to its place and the bedding unrolled.Together they
lifted the wounded youth and laid him upon his blankets beneath the low
canvas roof which seemed heavenly helpful to Berea."Now you are safe, no matter whether it
rains or not.""It seems I'm to have my way after all.I hope I shall be able
to see the sun rise.I've sort of lost my interest in the sunset.""Now, Cliff," she said, as soon as the camp was in order and a fire
started, "I reckon you'd better ride on.I haven't any further use for
you.""Don't say that, Berrie," he pleaded."I can't leave you here alone with
a sick man.She looked at him for a long time before she replied."I shall never be
able to look at you again without hating you," she said."I shall always
remember you as you looked when you were killing that boy.So you'd
better ride on and keep a-riding.I'm going to forget all this just as
soon as I can, and it don't help me any to have you around.I never want
to see you or hear your name again.""You don't mean that, Berrie!""Yes, I do," she asserted, bitterly.All I ask of you is to say nothing about what has happened
here.If Wayland should get worse it might
go hard with you."But I'd like to do something for you before I go.I'll pile up some
wood--"

"No.And without another word of farewell she
turned away and re-entered the tent.Mounting his horse with painful slowness, as though suddenly grown old,
the reprieved assassin rode away up the mountain, his head low, his eyes
upon the ground.XII

BERRIE'S VIGIL


The situation in which Berea now found herself would have disheartened
most women of mature age, but she remained not only composed, she was
filled with an irrational delight.The nurse that is in every woman was
aroused in her, and she looked forward with joy to a night of vigil,
confident that Wayland was not seriously injured and that he would soon
be able to ride.She had no fear of the forest or of the night.Nature
held no menace now that her tent was set and her fire alight.Wayland, without really knowing anything about it, suspected that he owed
his life to her intervention, and this belief deepened the feeling of
admiration which he had hitherto felt toward her.He listened to her at
work around the fire with a deepening sense of his indebtedness to her,
and when she looked in to ask if she could do anything for him, his
throat filled with an emotion which rendered his answer difficult.As his mind cleared he became very curious to know precisely what had
taken place, but he did not feel free to ask her."She will tell me if
she wishes me to know."That she had vanquished Belden and sent him on
his way was evident, although he had not been able to hear what she had
said to him at the last.What lay between the enemy's furious onslaught
and the aid he lent in making the camp could only be surmised."I wonder
if she used her pistol?""Something like death
must have stared him in the face.""Strange how everything seems to throw me ever deeper into her debt," he
thought, a little later.But he did not quite dare put into words the
resentment which mingled with his gratitude.He hated to be put so
constantly into the position of the one protected, defended.He had put himself among people and conditions where
she was the stronger.Having ventured out of his world into hers he must
take the consequences.That she loved him with the complete passion of her powerful and simple
nature he knew, for her voice had reached through the daze of his
semi-unconsciousness with thrilling power.The touch of her lips to his,
the close clasp of her strong arms were of ever greater convincing
quality.And yet he wished the revelation had come in some other way.It was a
disconcerting reversal of the ordinary relations between hero and
heroine, and he saw no way of re-establishing the normal attitude of the
male.Entirely unaware of what was passing in the mind of her patient, Berrie
went about her duties with a cheerfulness which astonished the sufferer
in the tent.She seemed about to hum a song as she set the skillet on the
fire, but a moment later she called out, in a tone of irritation: "Here
comes Nash!""I'm glad of that," answered Wayland, although he perceived something of
her displeasure.Nash, on his way to join the Supervisor, raised a friendly greeting as he
saw the girl, and drew rein."I expected to meet you farther down the
hill," he said."Tony 'phoned that you had started."Camped down the trail a mile or so.I thought I'd better push through
to-night.He fell and struck his head
on a rock, and I had to go into camp here.""I don't think you'd better take the time.It's a long, hard ride from
here to the station.It will be deep night before you can make it--"

"Don't you think the Supervisor would want me to camp here to-night and
do what I could for you?If Norcross is badly injured you will need me."She liked Nash, and she knew he was right, and yet she was reluctant to
give up the pleasure of her lone vigil."He's not in any danger, and
we'll be able to ride on in the morning."Nash, thinking of her as Clifford Belden's promised wife, had no
suspicion of her feeling toward Norcross.Therefore he gently urged that
to go on was quite out of order."I _can't_ think of leaving you here
alone--certainly not till I see Norcross and find out how badly he is
hurt.""I reckon you're right," she said."I'll go see if he is
awake."He followed her to the door of the tent, apprehending something new and
inexplicable in her attitude.In the music of her voice as she spoke to
the sick man was the love-note of the mate."You may come in," she called
back, and Nash, stooping, entered the small tent."Hello, old man, what you been doing with yourself?"No, the hill flew up and bumped _me_."I had no share in it--I
didn't go for to do it.""Whether you did or not, you seem to have made a good job of it."Nash examined the wounded man carefully, and his skill and strength in
handling Norcross pleased Berrie, though she was jealous of the warm
friendship which seemed to exist between the men.She had always liked Nash, but she resented him now, especially as he
insisted on taking charge of the case; but she gave way finally, and went
back to her pots and pans with pensive countenance.A little later, when Nash came out to make report, she was not very
gracious in her manner."He's pretty badly hurt," he said."There's an
ugly gash in his scalp, and the shock has produced a good deal of pain
and confusion in his head; but he's going to be all right in a day or
two.For a man seeking rest and recuperation he certainly has had a tough
run of weather."Though a serious-minded, honorable forester, determined to keep sternly
in mind that he was in the presence of the daughter of his chief, and
that she was engaged to marry another, Nash was, after all, a man, and
the witchery of the hour, the charm of the girl's graceful figure,
asserted their power over him.His eyes grew tender, and his voice
eloquent in spite of himself.His words he could guard, but it was hard
to keep from his speech the song of the lover.The thought that he was to
camp in her company, to help her about the fire, to see her from moment
to moment, with full liberty to speak to her, to meet her glance, pleased
him.It was the most romantic and moving episode in his life, and though
of a rather dry and analytic temperament he had a sense of poesy.The night, black, oppressive, and silent, brought a closer bond of mutual
help and understanding between them.He built a fire of dry branches
close to the tent door, and there sat, side by side with the girl, in the
glow of embers, so close to the injured youth that they could talk
together, and as he spoke freely, yet modestly, of his experiences Berrie
found him more deeply interesting than she had hitherto believed him to
be.True, he saw things less poetically than Wayland, but he was finely
observant, and a man of studious and refined habits.She grew friendlier, and asked him about his work, and especially about
his ambitions and plans for the future.They discussed the forest and its
enemies, and he wondered at her freedom in speaking of the Mill and
saloon.He said: "Of course you know that Alec Belden is a partner in
that business, and I'm told--of course I don't know this--that Clifford
Belden is also interested."She offered no defense of young Belden, and this unconcern puzzled him.He had expected indignant protest, but she merely replied: "I don't care
who owns it.It's
just another way of robbing those poor tie-jacks.""Clifford should get out of it."His relationship to you--"

"He is not related to me.""Of course I do, but you're mistaken.We're not related that way any
longer."This silenced him for a few moments, then he said: "I'm rather glad of
that.He isn't anything like the man you thought he was--I couldn't say
these things before--but he is as greedy as Alec, only not so open about
it."All this comment, which moved the forester so deeply to utter, seemed not
to interest Berea.She sat staring at the fire with the calm brow of an
Indian.Clifford Belden had passed out of her life as completely as he
had vanished out of the landscape.She felt an immense relief at being
rid of him, and resented his being brought back even as a subject of
conversation.Wayland, listening, fancied he understood her desire, and said nothing
that might arouse Nash's curiosity.Nash, on his part, knowing that she had broken with Belden, began to
understand the tenderness, the anxious care of her face and voice, as she
bent above young Norcross.As the night deepened and the cold air stung,
he asked: "Have you plenty of blankets for a bed?""Oh yes," she answered, "but I don't intend to sleep.""I will make my bed right here at the mouth of the
tent close to the fire," she said, "and you can call me if you need me.""Why not put your bed in the tent?"I am all right outside," she protested."Put your bed inside, Miss Berrie.We can't let conventions count above
timber-line.I shall rest better if I know you are properly sheltered."And so it happened that for the third time she shared the same roof with
her lover; but the nurse was uppermost in her now.At eleven thousand
feet above the sea--with a cold drizzle of fine rain in the air--one does
not consider the course of gossip as carefully as in a village, and
Berrie slept unbrokenly till daylight.Nash was the first to arise in the dusk of dawn, and Berrie, awakened by
the crackle of his fire, soon joined him.There is no sweeter sound than
the voice of the flame at such a time, in such a place.It endows the
bleak mountainside with comfort, makes the ledge a hearthstone.It holds
the promise of savory meats and fragrant liquor, and robs the frosty air
of its terrors.Wayland, hearing their voices, called out, with feeble humor: "Will some
one please turn on the steam in my room?""Not precisely like a pugilist--well, yes, I believe I do--like the
fellow who got second money."inquired Nash, thrusting his head inside the door."Reduced to the size of a golf-ball as near as I can judge of it.I doubt
if I can wear a hat; but I'm feeling fine.Do you feel like riding down
the hill?"I'm hungry, and as soon as I am fed I'm ready to start."Berrie joined the surveyor at the fire."If you'll round up our horses, Mr.Nash, I'll rustle breakfast and we'll
get going," she said.Nash, enthralled, lingered while she twisted her hair into place, then
went out to bring in the ponies.Wayland came out a little uncertainly, but looking very well."I think I
shall discourage my friends from coming to this region for their health,"
he said, ruefully."If I were a novelist now all this would be grist for
my mill."Beneath his joking he was profoundly chagrined.He had hoped by this time
to be as sinewy, as alert as Nash, instead of which here he sat,
shivering over the fire like a sick girl, his head swollen, his blood
sluggish; but this discouragement only increased Berea's tenderness--a
tenderness which melted all his reserve."I'm not worth all your care," he said to her, with poignant glance.The sun rose clear and warm, and the fire, the coffee, put new courage
into him as well as into the others, and while the morning was yet early
and the forest chill and damp with rain, the surveyor brought up the
horses and started packing the outfit.In this Berrie again took part, doing her half of the work quite as
dextrously as Nash himself.Indeed, the forester was noticeably confused
and not quite up to his usual level of adroit ease.At last both packs were on, and as they stood together for a moment, Nash
said: "This has been a great experience--one I shall remember as long as
I live."She stirred uneasily under his frank admiration."I'm mightily obliged to
you," she replied, as heartily as she could command."Don't thank me, I'm indebted to you.There is so little in my life of
such companionship as you and Norcross give me.""You'll find it lonesome over at the station, I'm afraid," said she."But
Moore intends to put a crew of tie-cutters in over there--that will help
some.""I'm not partial to the society of tie-jacks.""If you ride hard you may find that Moore girl in camp.There was a sparkle of mischief in her glance."I'm not interested in the Moore girl," he retorted."I've seen her at the post-office once or twice; _she_ is not my kind."I'm all right now that Wayland can
ride.""I believe I'll ride back with you as far as
the camp."There was dismissal in her voice, and yet she recognized as never before
the fine qualities that were his."Please don't say anything of this to
others, and tell my father not to worry about us.He helped Norcross mount his horse, and as he put the lead rope into
Berrie's hand, he said: with much feeling: "Good luck to you.I shall
remember this night all the rest of my life.""I hate to be going to the rear," called Wayland, whose bare, bandaged
head made him look like a wounded young officer."But I guess it's better
for me to lay off for a week or two and recover my tone."And so they parted, the surveyor riding his determined way up the naked
mountainside toward the clouds, while Berrie and her ward plunged at once
into the dark and dripping forest below."If you can stand the grief,"
she said, "we'll go clear through."Wayland had his misgivings, but did not say so.She would do her part, that was certain.Several
times she was forced to dismount and blaze out a new path in order to
avoid some bog; but she sternly refused his aid."You must not get off,"
she warned; "stay where you are.They were again in that green, gloomy, and silent zone of the range,
where giant spruces grow, and springs, oozing from the rocks, trickle
over the trail.It was very beautiful, but menacing, by reason of its
apparently endless thickets cut by stony ridges.It was here she met the
two young men, Downing and Travis, bringing forward the surveying outfit,
but she paused only to say: "Push along steadily.After leaving the men, and with a knowledge that the remaining leagues of
the trail were solitary, Norcross grew fearful."The fall of a horse, an
accident to that brave girl, and we would be helpless," he thought."I
wish Nash had returned with us."Once his blood chilled with horror as he
watched his guide striking out across the marge of a grassy lake.This
meadow, as he divined, was really a carpet of sod floating above a
bottomless pool of muck, for it shook beneath her horse's feet."Come on, it's all right," she called back, cheerily."We'll soon pick up
the other trail."He wondered how she knew, for to him each hill was precisely like
another, each thicket a maze.She tried each dangerous slough first, and
thus was able to advise him which way was safest.His head throbbed with
pain and his knees were weary, but he rode on, manifesting such cheer as
he could, resolving not to complain at any cost; but his self-respect
ebbed steadily, leaving him in bitter, silent dejection.At last they came into open ground on a high ridge, and were gladdened by
the valley outspread below them, for it was still radiant with color,
though not as brilliant as before the rain.It had been dimmed, but not
darkened.And yet it seemed that a month had passed since their ecstatic
ride upward through the golden forest, and Wayland said as much while
they stood for a moment surveying the majestic park with its wall of
guardian peaks.But Berrie replied: "It seems only a few hours to me."From this point the traveling was good, and they descended rapidly,
zigzagging from side to side of a long, sweeping ridge.By noon they were
once more down amid the aspens, basking in a world of sad gold leaves and
delicious September sunshine.At one o'clock, on the bank of a clear stream, the girl halted."I reckon
we'd better camp awhile.He gratefully acquiesced in this stop, for his knees were trembling with
the strain of the stirrups; but he would not permit her to ease him down
from his saddle.Turning a wan glance upon her, he bitterly asked: "Must
I always play the weakling before you?Ride on
and leave me to rot here in the grass."You must not talk like that," she gently admonished him.I should never have ventured into this man's country.""I'm glad you did," she answered, as if she were comforting a child."For
if you hadn't I should never have known you.""That would have been no loss--to you," he bitterly responded.She unsaddled one pack-animal and spread some blankets on the grass."Lie
down and rest while I boil some coffee," she commanded; and he obeyed,
too tired to make pretension toward assisting.Lying so, feeling the magic of the sun, hearing the music of the water,
and watching the girl, he regained a serener mood, and when she came back
with his food he thanked her for it with a glance before which her eyes
fell."I don't see why you are so kind to me, I really believe you _like_
to do things for me."Her head drooped to hide her face, and he went on:
"Why do you care for me?"I don't know," she murmured.Then she added, with a flash of bravery:
"But I do."You turn from a splendid fellow like Landon to
a'skate' like me.Landon worships you--you know that--don't you?""I know--he--" she ended, vaguely distressed.He's a man of high character
and education."She made no answer to this, and he went on: "Dear girl,
I'm not worth your care--truly I'm not.I resented your engagement to
Belden, for he was a brute; but Landon is different.I've never done anything in the
world--I never shall.It will be better for you if I go--to-morrow."She took his hand and pressed it to her cheek, then, putting her arm
about his neck, drew him to her bosom and kissed him passionately."You
break my heart when you talk like that," she protested, with tears."You
mustn't say such gloomy things--I won't let you give up.You shall come
right home with me, and I will nurse you till you are well.If we had only stayed in camp at the lake daddy would have joined
us that night, and if I had not loitered on the mountain yesterday Cliff
would not have overtaken us."I will not have it go that way," he said."I've brought you only care
and unhappiness thus far.I'm an alien--my ways are not your ways.""I hate my ways, and I like yours."As they argued she felt no shame, and he voiced no resentment.She pleaded as a man
might have done, ready to prove her love, eager to restore his
self-respect, while he remained both bitter and sadly contemptuous.A cow-hand riding up the trail greeted Berrie respectfully, but a cynical
smile broke out on his lips as he passed on.She had no further concern of the valley's comment.Her
life's happiness hung on the drooping eyelashes of this wounded boy, and
to win him back to cheerful acceptance of life was her only concern."I've never had any motives," he confessed."I've always done what
pleased me at the moment--or because it was easier to do as others were
doing.Truth is, I never had any surplus
vitality, and my father never demanded anything of me.A few days ago I was interested in forestry.What's the use of my trying to live?"Part of all this despairing cry arose from weariness, and part from a
luxurious desire to be comforted, for it was sweet to feel her sympathy.He even took a morbid pleasure in the distress of her eyes and lips while
her rich voice murmured in soothing protest.She, on her part, was frightened for him, and as she thought of the long
ride still before them she wrung her hands.Instantly smitten into shame, into manlier mood, he said: "Don't worry
about me, please don't."If we can reach Miller's ranch--"

"I can ride to _your_ ranch," he declared, and rose with such new-found
resolution that she stared at him in wonder.I've relieved my
heart of its load.Wonder what that
cowboy thought of me?"His sudden reversal to cheer was a little alarming to her, but at length
she perceived that he had in truth mastered his depression, and bringing
up the horses she saddled them, and helped him to mount."If you get
tired or feel worse, tell me, and we'll go into camp," she urged as they
were about to start."You keep going till I give the sign," he replied; and his voice was so
firm and clear that her own sunny smile came back."I don't know what to
make of you," she said.XIII

THE GOSSIPS AWAKE


It was dark when they reached the village, but Wayland declared his
ability to go on, although his wounded head was throbbing with fever and
he was clinging to the pommel of his saddle; so Berrie rode on.McFarlane, hearing the horses on the bridge, was at the door and
received her daughter with wondering question, while the stable-hands,
quick to detect an injured man, hurried to lift Norcross down from his
saddle."He fell and struck his head on a stone," Berea hastily explained."Take
the horses, boys, mother and I will look out for Mr.The men obeyed her and fell back, but they were consumed with curiosity,
and their glances irritated the girl."Slip the packs at once," she
insisted.With instant sympathy her mother came to her aid in supporting the
wounded, weary youth indoors, and as he stretched out on the couch in the
sitting-room, he remarked, with a faint, ironic smile: "This beats any
bed of balsam boughs.""He's over on the Ptarmigan.I've a powerful lot to tell you, mother; but
not now; we must look after Wayland.He's nearly done up, and so am I."McFarlane winced a little at her daughter's use of Norcross's first
name, but she said nothing further at the moment, although she watched
Berrie closely while she took off Wayland's shoes and stockings and
rubbed his icy feet."Get him something hot as quick as you can!"Gradually the tremor passed out of his limbs and a delicious sense of
warmth, of safety, stole over him, and he closed his eyes in the comfort
of her presence and care."Rigorous business this life of the pioneer,"
he said, with mocking inflection."I think I prefer a place in the lumber
trust."Then, with a rush of tender remorse: "Why didn't
you tell me to stop?I didn't realize that you were so tired."I didn't know how tired I was till I got here.Gee," he said, boyishly,
"that door-knob at the back of my head is red-hot!You're good to me," he
added, humbly.She hated to have him resume that tone of self-depreciation, and,
kneeling to him, she kissed his cheek, and laid her head beside his."Nobody could be braver; but you should
have told me you were exhausted.You fooled me with your cheerful
answers."He accepted her loving praise, her clasping arms, as a part of the rescue
from the darkness and pain of the long ride, careless of what it might
bring to him in the future.He ate his toast and drank his coffee, and
permitted the women to lead him to his room, and then being alone he
crept into his bed and fell instantly asleep.Berrie and her mother went back to the sitting-room, and Mrs.McFarlane
closed the door behind them."Now tell me all about it," she said, in the
tone of one not to be denied.The story went along very smoothly till the girl came to the second night
in camp beside the lake; there her voice faltered, and the reflective
look in the mother's eyes deepened as she learned that her daughter had
shared her tent with the young man."It was the only thing to do,
mother," Berrie bravely said."It was cold and wet outside, and you know
he isn't very strong, and his teeth were chattering, he was so chilled.I
know it sounds strange down here; but up there in the woods in the storm
what I did seemed right and natural.You know what I mean, don't you?"I don't blame you--only--if others should hear of
it--"

"But they won't.No one knows of our being alone there except Tony and
father.""I don't think so--not yet.""I wish you hadn't gone on this trip.If the Beldens find out you were alone with Mr.Norcross they'll make
much of it.It will give them a chance at your father.""I don't like to tell
you, mother, but he didn't fall, Cliff jumped him and tried to kill
him.""I don't know how he found out we were on the
trail.I suppose the old lady 'phoned him.Anyhow, while we were camped
for noon yesterday"--her face flamed again at thought of that tender,
beautiful moment when they were resting on the grass--"while we were at
our lunch he came tearing down the hill on that big bay horse of his and
took a flying jump at Wayland.As Wayland went down he struck his head on
a stone.I thought he was dead, and I was paralyzed for a second.Then I
flew at Cliff and just about choked the life out of him.I'd have ended
him right there if he hadn't let go."McFarlane, looking upon her daughter in amazement, saw on her face
the shadow of the deadly rage which had burned in her heart as she
clenched young Belden's throat."And when he realized what
he'd done--_he_ thought Wayland was dead--he began to weaken.Then I took
my gun and was all for putting an end to him right there, when I saw
Wayland's eyelids move.After that I didn't care what became of Cliff.I
told him to ride on and keep a-ridin', and I reckon he's clear out of the
state by this time.If he ever shows up I'll put him where he'll have all
night to be sorry in."Of course Wayland couldn't ride, he was so dizzy
and kind o' confused, and so I went into camp right there at timber-line.Along about sunset Nash came riding up from this side, and insisted on
staying to help me--so I let him.""Nash is not the kind that
tattles."And this morning I saddled and came down.""Yes, daddy was waiting for him, so I sent him along.""It's all sad business," groaned Mrs.McFarlane, "and I can see you're
keeping something back.How did Cliff happen to know just where you were?For the first time Berrie showed signs of weakness and distress."Why,
you see, Alec Belden and Mr.Moore were over there to look at some
timber, and old Marm Belden and that Moore girl went along.I suppose
they sent word to Cliff, and I presume that Moore girl put him on our
trail.Leastwise that's the way I figure it out.That's the worst of the
whole business."Belden's
tongue is hung in the middle and loose at both ends--and that Moore girl
is spiteful mean."She could not keep the contempt out of her voice."She
saw us start off, and she is sure to follow it up and find out what
happened on the way home; even if they don't see Cliff they'll _talk_.""Oh, I _wish_ you hadn't gone!""It can't be helped now, and it hasn't done me any real harm.It's all in
the day's work, anyhow.I've always gone with daddy before, and this trip
isn't going to spoil me.The boys all know me, and they will treat me
fair."Norcross is an outsider--a city man.They will all think
evil of him on that account.""I know; that's what troubles me.No one will know how fine and
considerate he was.Mother, I've never known any one like him.He's taught me to see things I never saw before.Everything
interests him--the birds, the clouds, the voices in the fire.I never was
so happy in my life as I was during those first two days, and that night
in camp before he began to worry--it was just wonderful."Words failed
her, but her shining face and the forward straining pose of her body
enlightened the mother."I don't care what people say of me if only they
will be just to him.They've _got_ to treat him right," she added,
firmly."Did he speak to you--are you engaged?""Not really engaged, mother; but he told me how much he
liked me--and--it's all right, mother, I _know_ it is.I'm not fine
enough for him, but I'm going to try to change my ways so he won't be
ashamed of me.""He surely is a fine young fellow, and can
be trusted to do the right thing.Well, we might as well go to bed.We
can't settle anything till your father gets home," she said.Wayland rose next morning free from dizziness and almost free from pain,
and when he came out of his room his expression was cheerful."I feel as
if I'd slept a week, and I'm hungry.I don't know why I should be, but I
am."McFarlane met him with something very intimate, something almost
maternal in her look; but her words were as few and as restrained as
ever.He divined that she had been talking with Berrie, and that a fairly
clear understanding of the situation had been reached.That this
understanding involved him closely he was aware; but nothing in his
manner acknowledged it.She did not ask any questions, believing that sooner or later the whole
story must come out.Belden knew that
Berrie had started back on Thursday with young Norcross made it easy for
the villagers to discover that she had not reached the ranch till
Saturday."What could Joe have been thinking of to allow them to go?"Nash's presence in the camp must be made known; but then there
is Clifford's assault upon Mr.Norcross, can that be kept secret, too?"And so while the young people chatted, the troubled mother waited in
fear, knowing that in a day or two the countryside would be aflame with
accusation.In a landscape like this, as she well knew, nothing moves unobserved.The
native--man or woman--is able to perceive and name objects scarcely
discernible to the eye of the alien.A minute speck is discovered on the
hillside."Hello, there's Jim Sanders on his roan," says one, or "Here
comes Kit Jenkins with her flea-bit gray.I wonder who's on the bay
alongside of her," remarks another, and each of these observations is
taken quite as a matter of course.With a wide and empty field of vision,
and with trained, unspoiled optic nerves, the plainsman is marvelously
penetrating of glance.McFarlane was perfectly certain that
not one but several of her neighbors had seen and recognized Berrie and
young Norcross as they came down the hill.In a day or two every man
would know just where they camped, and what had taken place in camp.Belden would not rest till she had ferreted out every crook and turn of
that trail, and her speech was quite as coarse as that of any of her male
associates.Easy-going with regard to many things, these citizens were abnormally
alive to all matters relating to courtship, and popular as she believed
Berrie to be, Mrs.McFarlane could not hope that her daughter would be
spared--especially by the Beldens, who would naturally feel that Clifford
had been cheated."Well, nothing can be done till Joe
returns," she repeated.A long day's rest, a second night's sleep, set Wayland on his feet."Barring the hickory-nut on the back of my
head," he explained, "I'm feeling fine, almost ready for another
expedition.Berrie, though equally gay, was not so sure of his ability to return to
work."I reckon you'd better go easy till daddy gets back; but if you
feel like it we'll ride up to the post-office this afternoon.""I want to start right in to learn to throw that hitch, and I'm going to
practise with an ax till I can strike twice in the same place.This trip
was an eye-opener.Great man I'd be in a windfall--wouldn't I?"He was persuaded to remain very quiet for another day, and part of it was
spent in conversation with Mrs.McFarlane--whom he liked very much--and
an hour or more in writing a long letter wherein he announced to his
father his intention of going into the Forest Service."I've got to build
up a constitution," he said, "and I don't know of a better place to do it
in.Besides, I'm beginning to be interested in the scheme.I'm living in his house at the present time, and I'm feeling
contented and happy, so don't worry about me."He was indeed quite comfortable, save when he realized that Mrs.McFarlane was taking altogether too much for granted in their
relationship.It was delightful to be so watched over, so waited upon, so
instructed.he continued to ask
himself--and still that wall of reserve troubled and saddened Berrie.They expected McFarlane that night, and waited supper for him, but he did
not come, and so they ate without him, and afterward Wayland helped
Berrie do up the dishes while the mother bent above her sewing by the
kitchen lamp.There was something very sweet and gentle about Mrs.McFarlane, and the
exile took almost as much pleasure in talking with her as with her
daughter.He led her to tell of her early experiences in the valley, and
of the strange types of men and women with whom she had crossed the
range."Some of them are here yet," she said."In fact the most violent of all
the opponents to the Service are these old adventurers.I don't think
they deserve to be called pioneers.They never did any work in clearing
the land or in building homes.Some of them, who own big herds of cattle,
still live in dug-outs.McFarlane for going into the
Service--called him a traitor.Old Jake Proudfoot was especially
furious--"

"You should see where old Jake lives," interrupted Berrie."He sleeps on
the floor in one corner of his cabin, and never changes his shirt."Daddy declares if they were to scrape Jake
they'd find at least five layers of shirts.His wife left him fifteen
years ago, couldn't stand his habits, and he's got worse ever since."Of course," her mother explained, "those who oppose the Supervisor
aren't all like Jake; but it makes me angry to have the papers all
quoting Jake as 'one of the leading ranchers of the valley.'"She could not bring herself to take up the most vital subject of all--the
question of her daughter's future."I'll wait till father gets home," she
decided.On the fourth morning the 'phone rang, and the squawking voice of Mrs."I wanted to know if Berrie and her feller got
home all right?""Last I see of Cliff he was hot on their
trail--looked like he expected to take a hand in that expedition."I don't hear very well--where are you?""I'm at the Scott ranch--we're coming round 'the horn' to-day."Say, Cliff was mad as a hornet when he
started.I'd like to know what happened--"

Mrs.The old woman's nasty chuckle was
intolerable; but in silencing the 'phone Mrs.McFarlane was perfectly
aware that she was not silencing the gossip; on the contrary, she was
certain that the Beldens would leave a trail of poisonous comment from
the Ptarmigan to Bear Tooth.Berrie wanted to know who was speaking, and Mrs.Belden wanted to know if you got through all right.""She said something else, something to heat you up," persisted the girl,
who perceived her mother's agitation."What did she say--something about
me--and Cliff?"The mother did not answer, for Wayland entered the room at the moment;
but Berrie knew that traducers were already busy with her affairs."I
don't care anything about old lady Belden," she said, later; "but I hate
to have that Moore girl telling lies about me."As for Wayland, the nights in the camp by the lake, and, indeed, all the
experiences of his trip in the high places were becoming each moment more
remote, more unreal.Camp life at timber-line did not seem to him subject
to ordinary conventional laws of human conduct, and the fact that he and
Berrie had shared the same tent under the stress of cold and snow, now
seemed so far away as to be only a complication in a splendid mountain
drama.Surely no blame could attach to the frank and generous girl, even
though the jealous assault of Cliff Belden should throw the valley into a
fever of chatter."Furthermore, I don't believe he will be in haste to
speak of his share in the play," he added.It was almost noon of the fourth day when the Supervisor called up to say
that he was at the office, and would reach the ranch at six o'clock."I wish you would come home at once," his wife argued; and something in
her voice convinced him that he was more needed at home, than in the
town.Hold the fort an hour and I'll be there."McFarlane met him at the hitching-bar, and it required but a glance
for him to read in her face a troubled state of mind."This has been a disastrous trip for Berrie," she said, after one of the
hands had relieved the Supervisor of his horse.Belden is filling the valley with the
story of Berrie's stay in camp with Mr.The horses had to
be followed, and that youngster couldn't do it--and, besides, I expected
to get back that night.Nobody but an old snoop like Seth Belden would
think evil of our girl.And, besides, Norcross is a man to be trusted.""Of course he is, but the Beldens are ready to think evil of any one
connected with us.And Cliff's assault on Wayland--"

He looked up quickly."Yes, he overtook them on the trail, and would have killed Norcross if
Berrie hadn't interfered."Nash didn't say anything about any assault."Berrie told him that Norcross fell from his horse.""I saw Cliff leave camp, but I didn't think
anything of it.Belden filled him with distrust of Berrie.He was already
jealous, and when he came up with them and found them lunching together,
he lost his head and rushed at Wayland like a wild beast.Of course he
couldn't stand against a big man like Cliff, and his head struck on a
stone; and if Berrie hadn't throttled the brute he would have murdered
the poor boy right there before her eyes."I didn't think he'd do
that."These domestic matters at once threw
his work as forester into the region of vague and unimportant
abstractions.He began to understand the danger into which Berea had
fallen, and step by step he took up the trails which had brought them all
to this pass.He fixed another penetrating look upon her face, and his voice was vibrant
with anxiety as he said: "You don't think there's anything--wrong?""No, nothing wrong; but she's profoundly in love with him.I never have
seen her so wrapped up in any one.It scares
me to see it, for I've studied him closely and I can't believe he feels
the same toward her.I don't know
what to do or say.I fear she is in for a period of great unhappiness."She was at the beginning of tears, and he sought to comfort her."Don't
worry, honey, she's got too much horse sense to do anything foolish.I suppose it's his being so different from the other boys
that catches her.We've always been good chums--let me talk with her.The return of the crew from the corral cut short this conference, and
when McFarlane went in Berrie greeted him with such frank and joyous
expression that all his fears vanished.I didn't want to take any chances on getting mired.It's still raining up there," he answered, then turned to Wayland:
"Here's your mail, Norcross, a whole hatful of it--and one telegram in
the bunch.Wayland took the bundle of letters and retired to his room, glad to
escape the persistent stare of the cow-hands.The despatch was from his
father, and was curt and specific as a command: "Shall be in Denver on
the 23d, meet me at the Palmer House.Come
prepared to join me on the trip."With the letters unopened in his lap he sat in silent thought, profoundly
troubled by the instant decision which this message demanded of him.At
first glance nothing was simpler than to pack up and go.He was only a
tourist in the valley with no intention of staying; but there was Berea!To go meant a violent end of their pleasant romance.To think of flight
saddened him, and yet his better judgment was clearly on the side of
going."Much as I like her, much as I admire her, I cannot marry her.The
simplest way is to frankly tell her so and go.It seems cowardly, but in
the end she will be happier."His letters carried him back into his own world.One was from Will
Halliday, who was going with Professor Holsman on an exploring trip up
the Nile.Holsman has promised to take you on."Another classmate wrote to know if he did not want to go into a land deal
on the Gulf of Mexico.A girl asked: "Are you to be in New York this
winter?I've decided to go into this Suffrage Movement."And so,
one by one, the threads which bound him to Eastern city life re-spun
their filaments.After all, this Colorado outing, even though it should
last two years, would only be a vacation--his real life was in the cities
of the East.Charming as Berea was, potent as she seemed, she was after
all a fixed part of the mountain land, and not to be taken from it.At
the moment marriage with her appeared absurd.A knock at his door and the Supervisor's voice gave him a keen shock."Come in," he called, springing to his feet with a thrill of dread, of
alarm.McFarlane entered slowly and shut the door behind him.His manner was
serious, and his voice gravely gentle as he said: "I hope that telegram
does not call you away?""It is from my father, asking me to meet him in Denver," answered
Norcross, with faltering breath.The older man took a seat with quiet dignity."Seems like a mighty fine
chance, don't it?When do you plan
for to pull out?"Wayland was not deceived by the Supervisor's casual tone; there was
something ominously calm in his manner, something which expressed an
almost dangerous interest in the subject."I haven't decided to go at all.I'm still dazed by the suddenness of it.I didn't know my father was planning this trip."Well, before you decide to go I'd like to have a little talk with
you.My daughter has told me part of what happened to you on the trail.I
want to know _all_ of it.You're young, but you've been out in the world,
and you know what people can say about you and my girl."His voice became
level and menacing, as he added: "And I don't intend to have her put in
wrong on account of you."No one will dare to criticize her for what she could
not prevent.""You don't know the Beldens.My girl's character will be on trial in
every house in the county to-morrow.The Belden side of it will appear in
the city papers.Berrie will be made an
issue by my enemies.exclaimed Norcross, in sudden realization of the gravity of
the case."Moore's gang will seize upon it and work it hard," McFarlane went on,
with calm insistence."They want to bring the district forester down on
me.This is a fine chance to badger me.They will make a great deal of my
putting you on the roll.Our little camping trip is likely to prove a
serious matter to us all.""Surely you don't consider me at fault?"Worried as he was, the father was just."No, you're not to blame--no one
is to blame.It all dates back to the horses quitting camp; but you've
got to stand pat now--for Berrie's sake."Tell me
what to do, and I will do it."McFarlane was staggered, but he answered: "You can at least stay on the
ground and help fight.I'll stay, and I'll make any statement you see fit.I'll
do anything that will protect Berrie."McFarlane again looked him squarely in the eyes."Is there a--an
agreement between you?""Nothing formal--that is--I mean I admire her, and I told her--" He
stopped, feeling himself on the verge of the irrevocable."She's a
splendid girl," he went on."I like her exceedingly, but I've known her
only a few weeks.""Girls are flighty critters," he said, sadly."I
don't know why she's taken to you so terrible strong; but she has.She
don't seem to care what people say so long as they do not blame you; but
if you should pull out you might just as well cut her heart to pieces--"
His voice broke, and it was a long time before he could finish."You're
not at fault, I know that, but if you _can_ stay on a little while and
make it an ounce or two easier for her and for her mother, I wish you'd
do it."In the grip of McFarlane's hand was something
warm and tender."I'm terribly obliged," he said; "but we mustn't let her suspect
for a minute that we've been discussing her.She hates being pitied or
helped.""She shall not experience a moment's uneasiness that I can prevent,"
replied the youth; and at the moment he meant it.She read in her father's face a
subtle change of line which she related to something Wayland had said."Did he tell you what was in the telegram?"Yes, he said it was from his father.""He's on his way to California and wants Wayland to go with him; but
Wayland says he's not going."A pang shot through Berrie's heart."He mustn't go--he isn't able to go,"
she exclaimed, and her pain, her fear, came out in her sharpened,
constricted tone."I won't let him go--till he's well.""He'll have to go, honey, if his father
needs him."She rose, and, going to his door, decisively
knocked.she demanded, rather than asked, before her
mother could protest.Wayland opened the door, and she entered, leaving her parents facing each
other in mute helplessness.McFarlane turned toward her husband with a face of despair."She's
ours no longer, Joe.You cut loose from your parents and came to me in just the same
way.Our daughter's a grown woman, and must have her own life.All we can
do is to defend her against the coyotes who are busy with her name.""But what of _him_, Joe; he don't care for her as she does for him--can't
you see that?""He'll do the right thing, mother; he told me he would.He knows how much
depends on his staying here now, and he intends to do it.""But in the end, Joe, after this scandal is lived down, can he--will
he--marry her?And if he marries her can they live together and be happy?He can't content himself here, and she
can't fit in where he belongs.Wouldn't it
be better for her to suffer for a little while now than to make a mistake
that may last a lifetime?""Mebbe it would, mother, but the decision is not ours.She's too strong
for us to control.She's of age, and if she comes to a full understanding
of the situation, she can decide the question a whole lot better than
either of us.""In some ways she's bigger and stronger than
both of us.Sometimes I wish she were not so self-reliant.""Well, that's the way life is, sometimes, and I reckon there's nothin'
left for you an' me but to draw closer together and try to fill up the
empty place she's going to leave between us."XIV

THE SUMMONS


When Wayland caught the startled look on Berrie's face he knew that she
had learned from her father the contents of his telegram, and that she
would require an explanation.At least, I must go down to Denver to see my father."And will you tell him about our trip?"she pursued, with unflinching
directness.He gave her a chair, and took a seat himself before replying."Yes, I
shall tell him all about it, and about you and your father and mother.He
shall know how kind you've all been to me."He said this bravely, and at the moment he meant it; but as his father's
big, impassive face and cold, keen eyes came back to him his courage
sank, and in spite of his firm resolution some part of his secret anxiety
communicated itself to the girl, who asked many questions, with intent to
find out more particularly what kind of man the elder Norcross was.Wayland's replies did not entirely reassure her.He admitted that his
father was harsh and domineering in character, and that he was ambitious
to have his son take up and carry forward his work."He was willing
enough to have me go to college till he found I was specializing on wrong
lines.Then I had to fight in order to keep my place.He's glad I'm out
here, for he thinks I'm regaining my strength.But just as soon as I'm
well enough he expects me to go to Chicago and take charge of the Western
office.Of course, I don't want to do that.I'd rather work out some
problem in chemistry that interests me; but I may have to give in, for a
time at least.""Will your mother and sisters be with your father?"You couldn't get any one of them west of the Hudson River
with a log-chain.My sisters were both born in Michigan, but they want to
forget it--they pretend they have forgotten it."I suppose they think we're all 'Injuns' out here?""Oh no, not so bad as that; but they wouldn't comprehend anything about
you except your muscle.They'd worship your
splendid health, just as I do.It's pitiful the way they both try to put
on weight.They're always testing some new food, some new tonic--they'll
do anything except exercise regularly and go to bed at ten o'clock."All that he said of his family deepened her dismay.Their interests were
so alien to her own."I'm afraid to have you go even for a day," she admitted, with simple
honesty, which moved him deeply."I don't know what I should do if you
went away.Her face was pitiful, and he put his arm about her neck as if she were a
child.You must go on with your life just as if I'd
never been.Think of your father's job--of the forest and the ranch."I never want to go
into the high country again, and I don't want you to go, either."That is only a mood," he said, confidently.He could not divine, and she could not tell him, how poignantly she had
sensed the menace of the cold and darkness during his illness.For the
first time in her life she had realized to the full the unrelenting
enmity of the clouds, the wind, the night; and during that interminable
ride toward home, when she saw him bending lower and lower over his
saddle-bow, her allegiance to the trail, her devotion to the stirrup was
broken.His weariness and pain had changed the universe for her.Never
again would she look upon the range with the eyes of the care-free girl.The other, the civilized, the domestic, side of her was now dominant.A
new desire, a bigger aspiration, had taken possession of her.Little by little he realized this change in her, and was touched with the
wonder of it.He had never had any great self-love either as man or
scholar, and the thought of this fine, self-sufficient womanly soul
centering all its interests on him was humbling.Each moment his
responsibility deepened, and he heard her voice but dimly as she went
on."Of course we are not rich; but we are not poor, and my mother's family
is one of the oldest in Kentucky."She uttered this with a touch of her
mother's quiet dignity."So far as my father is concerned, family don't count, and neither does
money.But he confidently expects me to take up his business in Chicago,
and I suppose it is my duty to do so.If he finds me looking fit he may
order me into the ranks at once.""I'll go there--I'll do anything you want me to do," she urged."You can
tell your father that I'll help you in the office.I'm ready
to use a typewriter--anything."He was silent in the face of her naive expression of self-sacrificing
love, and after a moment she added, hesitatingly: "I wish I could meet
your father.Perhaps he'd come up here if you asked him to do so?"I don't
want to go to town.I just believe I'll wire him that I'm laid up here
and can't come."Then a shade of new trouble came over his face.How
would the stern, methodical old business man regard this slovenly ranch
and its primitive ways?"You're afraid to have him come," she said, with the same disconcerting
penetration which had marked every moment of her interview thus far."You're afraid he wouldn't like me?"With almost equal frankness he replied: "No.I think he'd like _you_, but
this town and the people up here would gall him.Then he's got a vicious slant against all this conservation
business--calls it tommy-rot.He and your father might lock horns first
crack out of the box.A knock at the door interrupted him, and Mrs.McFarlane's voice, filled
with new excitement, called out: "Berrie, the District office is on the
wire."Berrie opened the door and confronted her mother, who said: "Mr.Evingham
'phones that the afternoon papers contain an account of a fight at Coal
City between Settle and one of Alec Belden's men, and that the District
Forester is coming down to investigate it.""Let him come," answered Berrie, defiantly.McFarlane, with the receiver to his ear, was saying: "Don't know a thing
about it, Mr.Settle was at the station when I left.I didn't
know he was going down to Coal City.My daughter
was never engaged to Alec Belden.Alec Belden is the older of the
brothers, and is married.If you come down
I'll explain fully."He hung up the receiver and slowly turned toward his wife and daughter."This sure is our day of trouble," he said, with dejected countenance."Why, it seems that after I left yesterday Settle rode down the valley
with Belden's outfit, and they all got to drinking, ending in a row, and
Tony beat one of Belden's men almost to death.The sheriff has gone over
to get Tony, and the Beldens declare they're going to railroad him.That
means we'll all be brought into it.Belden has seized the moment to
prefer charges against me for keeping Settle in the service and for
putting a non-resident on the roll as guard.The whelp will dig up
everything he can to queer me with the office.All that kept him from
doing it before was Cliff's interest in you.""He can't make any of his charges stick," declared Berrie.Norcross will both be called as witnesses, for it seems that
Tony was defending your name.The papers call it 'a fight for a girl.'They can't make me do that, can they?"It is a shame to have you mixed up in
such a trial.""I shall not run away and leave you and the Supervisor to bear all the
burden of this fight."He anticipated in imagination--as they all did--some of the consequences
of this trial.The entire story of the camping trip would be dragged in,
distorted into a scandal, and flashed over the country as a disgraceful
episode.The country would ring with laughter and coarse jest.Berrie's
testimony would be a feast for court-room loafers."There's only one thing to do," said McFarlane, after a few moments of
thought.McFarlane must get out of here before
you are subpoenaed.""And leave you to fight it out alone?""I shall do
nothing of the kind."That won't do," retorted McFarlane, quickly.I will not have you dragged
into this muck-hole.We've got to think quick and act quick.There won't
be any delay about their side of the game.I don't think they'll do
anything to-day; but you've got to fade out of the valley.You all get
ready and I'll have one of the boys hook up the surrey as if for a little
drive, and you can pull out over the old stage-road to Flume and catch
the narrow-gage morning train for Denver.You've been wanting for some
time to go down the line."We won't leave you to inherit all this trouble.The more I consider this thing, the more worrisome it gets.If he does I'll have him arrested for trying to kill Wayland,"
retorted Berrie.You are all going to cross the
range.You can start out as if for a little turn round the valley, and
just naturally keep going.It can't do any harm, and it may save a nasty
time in court.""One would think we were a lot of criminals," remarked Wayland."That's the way you'll be treated," retorted McFarlane."Belden has
retained old Whitby, the foulest old brute in the business, and he'll
bring you all into it if he can.""But running away from it will not prevent talk," argued his wife."Not entirely; but talk and testimony are two different things.Suppose
they call daughter to the stand?Do you want her cross-examined as to
what basis there was for this gossip?They know something of Cliff's
being let out, and that will inflame them.He may be at the mill this
minute.""I guess you're right," said Norcross, sadly."Our delightful excursion
into the forest has led us into a predicament from which there is only
one way of escape, and that is flight."Back of all this talk, this argument, there remained still unanswered the
most vital, most important question: "Shall I speak of marriage at this
time?Would it be a source of comfort to them as well as a joy to her?"At the moment he was ready to speak, for he felt himself to be the direct
cause of all their embarrassment.But closer thought made it clear that a
hasty ceremony would only be considered a cloak to cover something
illicit."I'll leave it to the future," he decided.McFarlane was again called to the telephone.Landon, with characteristic
brevity, conveyed to him the fact that Mrs.Belden was at home and busily
'phoning scandalous stories about the country."If you don't stop her
she's going to poison every ear in the valley," ended the ranger."You'd think they'd all know my daughter well enough not to believe
anything Mrs.Belden says," responded McFarlane, bitterly."All the boys are ready to do what Tony did.But nobody can stop this old
fool's mouth but you.Cliff has disappeared, and that adds to the
excitement.""Thank the boys for me," said McFarlane, "and tell them not to fight.As McFarlane went out to order the horses hooked up, Wayland followed him
as far as the bars."I'm conscience-smitten over this thing, Supervisor,
for I am aware that I am the cause of all your trouble.""Don't let that worry you," responded the older man."The most appalling thing to me is the fact that not even your daughter's
popularity can neutralize the gossip of a woman like Mrs.My
being an outsider counts against Berrie, and I'm ready to do
anything--anything," he repeated, earnestly.McFarlane, and I'm ready to marry her at once if you think best.She's a
noble girl, and I cannot bear to be the cause of her calumniation."There was mist in the Supervisor's eyes as he turned them on the young
man."I'm right glad to hear you say that, my boy."He reached out his
hand, and Wayland took it."I knew you'd say the word when the time came.I didn't know how strongly she felt toward you till to-day.I knew she
liked you, of course, for she said so, but I didn't know that she had
plum set her heart on you.I didn't expect her to marry a city man;
but--I like you and--well, she's the doctor!Don't you be afraid of her not meeting all comers."He went on after a
pause, "She's never seen much of city life, but she'll hold her own
anywhere, you can gamble on that.""She has wonderful adaptability, I know," answered Wayland, slowly."But
I don't like to take her away from here--from you.""If you hadn't come she would have married Cliff--and what kind of a life
would she have led with him?""I knew Cliff was
rough, but I couldn't convince her that he was cheap.I live only for her
happiness, my boy, and, though I know you will take her away from me, I
believe you can make her happy, and so--I give her over to you.As to
time and place, arrange that--with--her mother."He turned and walked
away, unable to utter another word.Wayland's throat was aching also, and he went back into the house with a
sense of responsibility which exalted him into sturdier manhood.Berea met him in a pretty gown, a dress he had never seen her wear, a
costume which transformed her into something entirely feminine.She seemed to have put away the self-reliant manner of the trail, and in
its stead presented the lambent gaze, the tremulous lips of the bride.As
he looked at her thus transfigured his heart cast out its hesitancy and
he entered upon his new adventure without further question or regret.XV

A MATTER OF MILLINERY


It was three o'clock of a fine, clear, golden afternoon as they said
good-by to McFarlane and started eastward, as if for a little drive.Berrie held the reins in spite of Wayland's protestations."These
bronchos are only about half busted," she said.Therefore he submitted, well knowing that
she was entirely competent and fully informed.McFarlane, while looking back at her husband, sadly exclaimed: "I
feel like a coward running away like this.""Forget it, mother," commanded her daughter, cheerily."Just imagine
we're off for a short vacation.So long as we _must_ go, let's go whooping.Her voice was gay, her eyes shining, and Wayland saw her as she had been
that first day in the coach--the care-free, laughing girl.The trouble
they were fleeing from was less real to her than the happiness toward
which she rode.Her hand on the reins, her foot on the brake, brought back her
confidence; but Wayland did not feel so sure of his part in the
adventure.She seemed so unalterably a part of this life, so fitted to
this landscape, that the thought of transplanting her to the East brought
uneasiness and question.Could such a creature of the open air be content
with the walls of a city?For several miles the road ran over the level floor of the valley, and
she urged the team to full speed."I don't want to meet anybody if I can
help it.Once we reach the old stage route the chances of being scouted
are few.Nobody uses that road since the broad-gauge reached Cragg's."McFarlane could not rid herself of the resentment with which she
suffered this enforced departure; but she had small opportunity to
protest, for the wagon bumped and clattered over the stony stretches with
a motion which confused as well as silenced her.It was all so
humiliating, so unlike the position which she had imagined herself to
have attained in the eyes of her neighbors.Furthermore, she was going
away without a trunk, with only one small bag for herself and
Berrie--running away like a criminal from an intangible foe.However, she
was somewhat comforted by the gaiety of the young people before her.They
were indeed jocund as jaybirds.With the resiliency of youth they had
accepted the situation, and were making the best of it."Here comes somebody," called Berrie, pulling her ponies to a walk.She was chuckling as if it were all a
good joke.I'm
going to pass him on the jump."Wayland, who was riding with his hat in his hand because he could not
make it cover his bump, held it up as if to keep the wind from his face,
and so defeated the round-eyed, owl-like stare of the inquisitive
rancher, who brought his team to a full stop in order to peer after them,
muttering in a stupor of resentment and surprise."He'll worry himself sick over us," predicted Berrie."He'll wonder where
we're going and what was under that blanket till the end of summer.He is
as curious as a fool hen."A few minutes more and they were at the fork in the way, and, leaving the
trail to Cragg's, the girl pulled into the grass-grown, less-traveled
trail to the south, which entered the timber at this point and began to
climb with steady grade.Letting the reins fall slack, she turned to her
mother with reassuring words.We won't meet
anybody on this road except possibly a mover's outfit.We're in the
forest again," she added.For two hours they crawled slowly upward, with a roaring stream on one
side and the pine-covered <DW72>s on the other.Jays and camp-birds called
from the trees.Water-robins fluttered from rock to rock in the foaming
flood.Squirrels and minute chipmunks raced across the fallen tree-trunks
or clattered from great boulders, and in the peace and order and beauty
of the forest they all recovered a serener outlook on the noisome tumult
they were leaving behind them.Invisible as well as inaudible, the
serpent of slander lost its terror.Once, as they paused to rest the horses, Wayland said: "It is hard to
realize that down in that ethereal valley people like old Jake and Mrs.McFarlane to admit that it might all turn out a blessing
in disguise.McFarlane may resign and move to Denver, as I've long
wanted him to do.""I wish he would," exclaimed Berrie, fervently."It's time you had a
rest.Daddy will hate to quit under fire, but he'd better do it."Peak by peak the Bear Tooth Range rose behind them, while before them the
smooth, grassy <DW72>s of the pass told that they were nearing
timber-line.The air was chill, the sun was hidden by old Solidor, and
the stream had diminished to a silent rill winding among sear grass and
yellowed willows.The
southern boundary of the forest was in sight.At last the topmost looming crags of the Continental Divide cut the
sky-line, and then in the smooth hollow between two rounded grassy
summits Berrie halted, and they all silently contemplated the two worlds.To the west and north lay an endless spread of mountains, wave on wave,
snow-lined, savage, sullen in the dying light; while to the east and
southeast the foot-hills faded into the plain, whose dim cities,
insubstantial as flecks in a veil of violet mist, were hardly
distinguishable without the aid of glasses.To the girl there was something splendid, something heroical in that
majestic, menacing landscape to the west.In one of its folds she had
begun her life.In another she had grown to womanhood and self-confident
power.The rough men, the coarse, ungainly women of that land seemed less
hateful now that she was leaving them, perhaps forever, and a confused
memory of the many splendid dawns and purple sunsets she had loved filled
her thought.Wayland, divining some part of what was moving in her mind, cheerily
remarked, "Yes, it's a splendid place for a summer vacation, but a stern
place in winter-time, and for a lifelong residence it is not inspiring."McFarlane agreed with him in this estimate."It _is_ terribly
lonesome in there at times.I'm ready for the
comforts of civilization."Berrie turned in her seat, and was about to take up the reins when
Wayland asserted himself.She looked at him with questioning, smiling glance.It's
all the way down-hill--and steep?""If I can't I'll ask your aid.I'm old enough to remember the family
carriage.I've even driven a four-in-hand."She surrendered her seat doubtfully, and smiled to see him take up the
reins as if he were starting a four-horse coach.He proved adequate and
careful, and she was proud of him as, with foot on the brake and the
bronchos well in hand, he swung down the long looping road to the
railway.She was pleased, too, by his care of the weary animals, easing
them down the steepest <DW72>s and sending them along on the comparatively
level spots.Their descent was rapid, but it was long after dark before they reached
Flume, which lay up the valley to the right.It was a poor little
decaying mining-town set against the hillside, and had but one hotel, a
sun-warped and sagging pine building just above the station."Not much like the Profile House," said Wayland, as he drew up to the
porch."There isn't any," Berrie assured him."Well, now," he went on, "I am in command of this expedition.When it comes to hotels, railways, and the like o'
that, I'm head ranger."McFarlane, tired, hungry, and a little dismayed, accepted his
control gladly; but Berrie could not at once slip aside her
responsibility."Tell the hostler--"

"Not a word!"commanded Norcross; and the girl with a smile submitted to
his guidance, and thereafter his efficiency, his self-possession, his
tact delighted her.He persuaded the sullen landlady to get them supper.He secured the best rooms in the house, and arranged for the care of the
team, and when they were all seated around the dim, fly-specked oil-lamp
at the end of the crumby dining-room table he discovered such a gay and
confident mien that the women looked at each other in surprise.In drawing off her buckskin
driving-gloves she had put away the cowgirl, and was silent, a little sad
even, in the midst of her enjoyment of his dictatorship.And when he
said, "If my father reaches Denver in time I want you to meet him," she
looked the dismay she felt."I'll do it--but I'm scared of him."I'll see him first and draw his fire."We can't
meet your father as we are."I'll go with you if you'll let me.I'm a great little
shopper.I have infallible taste, so my sisters say.If it's a case of
buying new hats, for instance, I'm the final authority with them."This
amused Berrie, but her mother took it seriously."Of course, I'm anxious to have my daughter make the best possible
impression."We get in, I find, about noon.We'll go
straight to the biggest shop in town.If we work with speed we'll be able
to lunch with my father.He'll be at the Palmer House at one."Berrie said nothing, either in acceptance or rejection of his plan.Her
mind was concerned with new conceptions, new relationships, and when in
the hall he took her face between his hands and said, "Cheer up!All is
not lost," she put her arms about his neck and laid her cheek against his
breast to hide her tears.What he said was not very cogent, and not in the least literary, but it
was reassuring and lover-like, and when he turned her over to her mother
she was composed, though unwontedly grave.She woke to a new life next morning--a life of compliance, of following,
of dependence upon the judgment of another.She stood in silence while
her lover paid the bills, bought the tickets, and telegraphed their
coming to his father.She acquiesced when he prevented her mother from
telephoning to the ranch.She complied when he countermanded her order to
have the team sent back at once.His judgment ruled, and she enjoyed her
sudden freedom from responsibility.It was novel, and it was very sweet
to think that she was being cared for as she had cared for and shielded
him in the world of the trail.In the little railway-coach, which held a score of passengers, she found
herself among some Eastern travelers who had taken the trip up the Valley
of the Flume in the full belief that they were piercing the heart of the
Rocky Mountains!It amused Wayland almost as much as it amused Berrie
when one man said to his wife:

"Well, I'm glad we've seen the Rockies."After an hour's ride Wayland tactfully withdrew, leaving mother and
daughter to discuss clothes undisturbed by his presence."We must look our best, honey," said Mrs."We will go right to
Mme.Crosby at Battle's, and she'll fit us out.I wish we had more time;
but we haven't, so we must do the best we can.""I want Wayland to choose my hat and traveling-suit," replied Berrie.But you've got to have a lot of other things besides."And
they bent to the joyous work of making out a list of goods to be
purchased as soon as they reached Chicago.Wayland came back with a Denver paper in his hand and a look of disgust
on his face."It's all in here--at least, the outlines of it."Berrie took the journal, and there read the details of Settle's assault
upon the foreman."The fight arose from a remark concerning the Forest
Supervisor's daughter.Ranger Settle resented the gossip, and fell upon
the other man, beating him with the butt of his revolver.Friends of the
foreman claim that the ranger is a drunken bully, and should have been
discharged long ago.The Supervisor for some mysterious reason retains
this man, although he is an incompetent.It is also claimed that
McFarlane put a man on the roll without examination."The Supervisor was
the protagonist of the play, which was plainly political.The attack upon
him was bitter and unjust, and Mrs.McFarlane again declared her
intention of returning to help him in his fight.However, Wayland again
proved to her that her presence would only embarrass the Supervisor."You
would not aid him in the slightest degree.Nash and Landon are with him,
and will refute all these charges."This newspaper story took the light out of their day and the smile from
Berrie's lips, and the women entered the city silent and distressed in
spite of the efforts of their young guide.The nearer the girl came to
the ordeal of facing the elder Norcross, the more she feared the outcome;
but Wayland kept his air of easy confidence, and drove them directly to
the shopping center, believing that under the influence of hats and
gloves they would regain their customary cheer.They had a delightful hour trying on
millinery and coats and gloves.McFarlane,
gladly accepted her commission, and, while suspecting the tender
relationship between the girl and the man, she was tactful enough to
conceal her suspicion."The gentleman is right; you carry simple things
best," she remarked to Berrie, thus showing her own good judgment."Smartly tailored gray or blue suits are your style."Silent, blushing, tousled by the hands of her decorators, Berrie
permitted hats to be perched on her head and jackets buttoned and
unbuttoned about her shoulders till she felt like a worn clothes-horse.Wayland beamed with delight, but she was far less satisfied than he; and
when at last selection was made, she still had her doubts, not of the
clothes, but of her ability to wear them.They seemed so alien to her, so
restrictive and enslaving."You're an easy fitter," said the saleswoman."But"--here she lowered her
voice--"you need a new corset.Thereupon Berrie meekly permitted herself to be led away to a
torture-room.Wayland waited patiently, and when she reappeared all
traces of Bear Tooth Forest had vanished.In a neat tailored suit and a
very "chic" hat, with shoes, gloves, and stockings to match, she was so
transformed, so charmingly girlish in her self-conscious glory, that he
was tempted to embrace her in the presence of the saleswoman.He merely said: "I see the governor's finish!"I don't know myself," responded Berrie."The only thing that feels
natural is my hand.They cinched me so tight I can't eat a thing, and my
shoes hurt."She laughed as she said this, for her use of the vernacular
was conscious.Look at my face--red as a saddle!"This is the time of year when tan is
fashionable.Just smile at him, give
him your grip, and he'll melt.""I know how you feel, but you'll get used to the conventional
boiler-plate and all the rest of it.We all groan and growl when we come
back to it each autumn; but it's a part of being civilized, and we
submit."Notwithstanding his confident advice, Wayland led the two silent and
inwardly dismayed women into the showy cafe of the hotel with some degree
of personal apprehension concerning the approaching interview with his
father.Of course, he did not permit this to appear in the slightest
degree.On the contrary, he gaily ordered a choice lunch, and did his
best to keep his companions from sinking into deeper depression.It pleased him to observe the admiring glances which were turned upon
Berrie, whose hat became her mightily, and, leaning over, he said in a
low voice to Mrs.McFarlane: "Who is the lovely young lady opposite?This rejoiced the mother almost as much as it pleased the daughter, and
she answered, "She looks like one of the Radburns of Lexington, but I
think she's from Louisville."This little play being over, he said, "Now, while our order is coming
I'll run out to the desk and see if the governor has come in or not."XVI

THE PRIVATE CAR


After he went away Berrie turned to her mother with a look in which humor
and awe were blent."Am I dreaming, mother, or am I actually sitting here
in the city?Then, without waiting for an
answer, she fervently added: "Isn't he fine!I
hope his father won't despise me."With justifiable pride in her child, the mother replied: "He can't help
liking you, honey.You look exactly like your grandmother at this moment."I'll try; but I feel like a woodchuck out of his hole."McFarlane continued: "I'm glad we were forced out of the valley.You
might have been shut in there all your life as I have been with your
father.""You don't blame father, do you?"And yet he always was rather easy-going, and you know how
untidy the ranch is.He's always been kindness and sympathy itself; but
his lack of order is a cross.Perhaps now he will resign, rent the ranch,
and move over here.I should like to live in the city for a while, and
I'd like to travel a little.""Wouldn't it be fine if you could!You could live at this hotel if you
wanted to.You need a rest from the ranch and
dish-washing."Wayland returned with an increase of tension in his face.I've sent word saying, 'I am lunching in the cafe with
ladies.'He's a
good deal rougher on the outside than he is at heart.Of course, he's a
bluff old business man, and not at all pretty, and he'll transfix you
with a kind of estimating glare as if you were a tree; but he's actually
very easy to manage if you know how to handle him.Now, I'm not going to
try to explain everything to him at the beginning.I'm going to introduce
him to you in a casual kind of way and give him time to take to you both.He forms his likes and dislikes very quickly."His tone was so positive that her eyes misted with
happiness.I hope you aren't too nervous to
eat.This is the kind of camp fare I
can recommend."Berrie's healthy appetite rose above her apprehension, and she ate with
the keen enjoyment of a child, and her mother said, "It surely is a treat
to get a chance at somebody else's cooking.""Don't you slander your home fare," warned Wayland."It's as good as
this, only different."He sat where he could watch the door, and despite his jocund pose his
eyes expressed growing impatience and some anxiety.They were all well
into their dessert before he called out: "Here he is!"McFarlane could not see the new-comer from where she sat, but Berrie
rose in great excitement as a heavy-set, full-faced man with short, gray
mustache and high, smooth brow entered the room.He did not smile as he
greeted his son, and his penetrating glance questioned even before he
spoke.He seemed to silently ask: "Well, what's all this?How do you
happen to be here?Father, this is Miss
Berea McFarlane, of Bear Tooth Springs."McFarlane politely, coldly; but
he betrayed surprise as Berea took his fingers in her grip.At his son's
solicitation he accepted a seat opposite Berea, but refused dessert.McFarlane and her daughter quite saved my life
over in the valley.Their ranch is the best health resort in Colorado.""Your complexion indicates that," his father responded, dryly."You look
something the way a man of your age ought to look.I needn't ask how
you're feeling.""You needn't, but you may.I'm feeling like a new fiddle--barring a
bruise at the back of my head, which makes a 'hard hat' a burden.I may
as well tell you first off that Mrs.McFarlane is the wife of the Forest
Supervisor at Bear Tooth, and Miss Berea is the able assistant of her
father.Norcross, Senior, examined Berrie precisely as if his eyes were a couple
of X-ray tubes, and as she flushed under his slow scrutiny he said: "I
was not expecting to find the Forest Service in such hands.""I hope you didn't mash his fingers, Berrie."I hope I didn't hurt
you--sometimes I forget.""Miss McFarlane was brought up on a ranch.She can
rope and tie a steer, saddle her own horse, pack an outfit, and all the
rest of it."McFarlane, eager to put Berrie's better part forward, explained:
"She's our only child, Mr.Norcross, and as such has been a constant
companion to her father.She's been to school,
and she can cook and sew as well.""Neither of you correspond exactly to my
notions of a forester's wife and daughter."McFarlane comes from an old Kentucky family, father.Her
grandfather helped to found a college down there."Wayland's anxious desire to create a favorable impression of the women
did not escape the lumberman, but his face remained quite expressionless
as he replied:

"If the life of a cow-hand would give you the vigor this young lady
appears to possess, I'm not sure but you'd better stick to it."Wayland and the two women exchanged glances of relief.But he said: "There's a long
story to tell before we decide on my career.How
is mother, and how are the girls?"Once, in the midst of a lame pursuit of other topics, the elder Norcross
again fixed his eyes on Berea, saying: "I wish my girls had your weight
and color."He paused a moment, then resumed with weary infliction: "Mrs.Norcross has always been delicate, and all her children--even her
son--take after her.I've maintained a private and very expensive
hospital for nearly thirty years."This regretful note in his father's voice gave Wayland confidence."Come, let's adjourn to the parlor and talk things over at our ease."They all followed him, and after showing the mother and daughter to their
seats near a window he drew his father into a corner, and in rapid
undertone related the story of his first meeting with Berrie, of his
trouble with young Belden, of his camping trip, minutely describing the
encounter on the mountainside, and ended by saying, with manly
directness: "I would be up there in the mountains in a box if Berrie had
not intervened.She's a noble girl, father, and is foolish enough to like
me, and I'm going to marry her and try to make her happy."The old lumberman, who had listened intently all through this impassioned
story, displayed no sign of surprise at its closing declaration; but his
eyes explored his son's soul with calm abstraction."Send her over to
me," he said, at last.I want to talk with
her--alone."Wayland went back to the women with an air of victory."He wants to see
you, Berrie.She might have resented the father's lack of gallantry; but she did not.On the contrary, she rose and walked resolutely over to where he sat,
quite ready to defend herself.He did not rise to meet her, but she did
not count that against him, for there was nothing essentially rude in his
manner."Sit down," he said, not unkindly."I want to have _you_ tell me about my
son.Now let's have your side of
the story."She took a seat and faced him with eyes as steady as his own.Now, it seems to me that seven weeks is very
short acquaintance for a decision like that.His voice was slightly cynical as he went on."But you were tolerably
sure about that other fellow--that rancher with the fancy name--weren't
you?"She flushed at this, but waited for him to go on."Don't you think
it possible that your fancy for Wayland is also temporary?""I never felt toward any one the way I
do toward Wayland.Her tone, her expression of eyes stopped this line of inquiry."Now, my dear young lady, I am a business man as well as a
father, and the marriage of my son is a weighty matter.I am hoping to have him take up and carry on my business.To
be quite candid, I didn't expect him to select his wife from a Colorado
ranch.I considered him out of the danger-zone.I have always understood
that women were scarce in the mountains.I'm
not one of those fools who are always trying to marry their sons and
daughters into the ranks of the idle rich.I don't care a hang about
social position, and I've got money enough for my son and my son's wife.But he's all the boy I have, and I don't want him to make a mistake.""Neither do I," she answered, simply, her eyes suffused with tears."If I
thought he would be sorry--"

He interrupted again."Oh, you can't tell that now.I don't say he's making a mistake in selecting you.You may be just
the woman he needs.He tells me you have taken an active part in the management of
the ranch and the forest."I've always worked with my father--yes, sir.""I don't know much about any other kind."Well, how about city life--housekeeping and all that?""So long as I am with Wayland I sha'n't mind what I do or where I live.""At the same time you figure he's going to have a large income, I
suppose?He's told you of his rich father, hasn't he?"Berrie's tone was a shade resentful of his insinuation."He has never
said much about his family one way or another.He only said you wanted
him to go into business in Chicago, and that he wanted to do something
else.Of course, I could see by his ways and the clothes he wore that
he'd been brought up in what we'd call luxury, but we never inquired into
his affairs."But money don't count for as much with us in
the valley as it does in the East.Wayland seemed so kind of sick and
lonesome, and I felt sorry for him the first time I saw him.And then his way of talking, of looking at things was so
new and beautiful to me I couldn't help caring for him.I had never met
any one like him.I thought he was a 'lunger'--"

"A what?""A consumptive; that is, I did at first.It seemed
terrible that any one so fine should be condemned like that--and so--I
did all I could to help him, to make him happy.I thought he hadn't long
to live.Everything he said and did was wonderful to me, like poetry and
music.And then when he began to grow stronger and I saw that he was
going to get well, and Cliff went on the rampage and showed the yellow
streak, and I gave him back his ring--I didn't know even then how much
Wayland meant to me.But on our trip over the Range I understood.He made Cliff seem like a savage, and I wanted
him to know it.I want to make him happy,
and if he wishes me to be his wife I'll go anywhere he says--only I think
he should stay out here till he gets entirely well."The old man's eyes softened during her plea, and at its close a slight
smile moved the corners of his mouth."You've thought it all out, I see.But if he takes you and
stays in Colorado he can't expect me to share the profits of my business
with him, can he?"However, I'm persuaded he's in good hands."She took his hand, not knowing just what to reply.He examined her
fingers with intent gaze."I didn't know any woman could have such a grip."He thoughtfully took
her biceps in his left hand.Then, in ironical
protest, he added: "Good God, no!I can't have you come into my family.You'd make caricatures of my wife and daughters.Are all the girls out in
the valley like you?"Most of them pride themselves on _not_ being
horsewomen.Mighty few of 'em ever ride a horse.I'm a kind of a tomboy
to them."I suppose they'd all
like to live in the city and wear low-necked gowns and high-heeled shoes.No, I can't consent to your marriage with my son.I can see already signs of your
deterioration.Except for your color and that grip you already look like
upper Broadway.The next thing will be a slit skirt and a diamond
garter."She flushed redly, conscious of her new corset, her silk stockings, and
her pinching shoes."It's all on the outside," she declared."Under this
toggery I'm the same old trailer.It don't take long to get rid of these
things.I'm just playing a part to-day--for you."You've said good-by to the
cinch, I can see that.You're on the road to opera boxes and limousines.What would you advise Wayland to do if you knew I was
hard against his marrying you?Come, now, I can see you're a
clear-sighted individual."Yes; I'm going to ask my father to buy a ranch near here, where mother
can have more of the comforts of life, and where we can all live together
till Wayland is able to stand city life again.Then, if you want him to
go East, I will go with him."They had moved slowly back toward the others, and as Wayland came to meet
them Norcross said, with dry humor: "I admire your lady of the cinch
hand.She seems to be a person of singular good nature and most uncommon
shrewd--"

Wayland, interrupting, caught at his father's hand and wrung it
frenziedly."I'm glad--"

"Here!A look of pain covered the father's face."That's the fist
she put in the press."They all laughed at his joke, and then he gravely resumed."I say I
admire her, but it's a shame to ask such a girl to marry an invalid like
you.Furthermore, I won't have her taken East.She'd bleach out and lose
that grip in a year.I won't have her contaminated by the city."He mused
deeply while looking at his son."Would life on a wheat-ranch accessible
to this hotel by motor-car be endurable to you?"Mind you, I don't advise her to do it!"he added,
interrupting his son's outcry."I think she's taking all the chances.""I'm old-fashioned in my notions of marriage,
Mrs.I grew up when women were helpmates, such as, I judge,
you've been.Of course, it's all guesswork to me at the moment; but I
have an impression that my son has fallen into an unusual run of luck.As
I understand it, you're all out for a pleasure trip.Now, my private car
is over in the yards, and I suggest you all come along with me to
California--"

"Governor, you're a wonder!""That'll give us time to get better acquainted, and if we all like one
another just as well when we get back--well, we'll buy the best farm in
the North Platte and--"

"It's a cinch we get that ranch," interrupted Wayland, with a triumphant
glance at Berea."A private car, like a
yacht, is a terrible test of friendship."But his warning held no terrors
for the young lovers."But say, I
am growing awfully tired.""So am I," came from several others,

Then the good-night word was passed, and soon all of the cadets
were sound asleep, never dreaming of the surprise which awaited
them in the morning.CHAPTER VII

WHO WAS GUILTY?"Boys, I've had my trunk looted!""And I've had my trousers' pockets picked!""And the half-dollar I left on the bureau is gone!"Such were some of the excited exclamations which the Rover boys
heard when they went downstairs the next morning.The speakers
were the youths who occupied Dormitories Numbers 3 and 4, at the
rear of the main upper hall.An inquiry among the lads elicited
the information that everybody had suffered excepting one boy, who
said he had not had any money on hand."I spent my last cent for the spread," he grinned."I guess I'm
the lucky one."The news of the robberies created a profound sensation throughout
Putnam Hall, and both Captain Putnam and George Strong were very
much disturbed."We never had such a thing occur before," said the captain, and he
ordered a strict investigation.All told, something like thirty-two dollars were missing, and also
a gold watch, a silver watch, and several shirt-studs of more or
less value.Among the shirt-studs was one set with a ruby
belonging to a cadet named Weeks.The robbery had
been committed during the night, while the owners of the money and
the various articles slept."I must get at the bottom of this affair," said Captain Putnam."The honor of the academy is at stake."He talked to all of those who had lost anything and promised to
make the matter good.Then he asked each if he had any suspicions
regarding the thief or thieves.No one had, and for the time
being it looked as if the case must fall to the ground.Those who had been at the feast hardly knew what to say or to do.Should they tell the captain of the strange figure Sam had seen in
the hallway?"I'll tell him, and shoulder the blame, if you fellows are
willing," said Sam, after a long discussion."Fun is one thing,
and shielding a thief is another.""You do not know that that
person, was the thief.""More than likely he was," came from Dick."And if he was, who was he?""If you tell Captain
Putnam you'll simply get us all into trouble.""I vote that Sam makes a clean breast of it," said Frank, and
Larry said the same.This was just before dinner, and immediately
after the midday meal had been finished the youngest Rover went up
to the master of the Hall and touched him on the arm."I would like to speak to you in private and at once, Captain
Putnam," he said."Very well, Rover; come with me," was the reply, and Captain
Putnam led the way to his private office."I suppose I should have spoken of this before," said Sam, when
the two were seated."But I didn't want to get the others into
trouble.As it is, Captain Putnam, I want to take the entire blame
on my own shoulders.""Of what I am going to tell you about.We voted to tell you, but
I don't want to be a tattle-tale and get the others into trouble
along with me.""I will hear what you have to say," returned the master of the Hall
briefly."Well, sir, you know it was Dick's birthday yesterday, and we boys
thought we would celebrate a bit.So we had a little blow-out in
our room.""Was that the noise I heard last night?""The noise you heard was from our room, yes.But that isn't what
I was getting at," stammered Sam."We set a guard out in the
hallway to keep watch.""I was out in the hall part of the time, and I saw a dark figure
in the rear hallway prowling around in a most suspicious manner.3 and then came out and disappeared
toward the back stairs.""A man, sir, or else a big boy.He had something like a shawl
over his shoulders and was dressed in black or dark-brown.""You saw him go in and come out of one of the sleeping rooms?""And then he went down the back stairs?""He either went down the stairs or else into one of the back
rooms.I walked back after a minute or two, but I didn't see
anything more of him, although I heard a door close and heard a
key turn in a lock.""Was this before I came up or after?"We went to sleep right after you came up."And now Captain Putnam prepared to
write down the names."Oh, sir; I hope you won't--won't--"

"I'll have to ask you for the names, Samuel.I want to know who
was on foot last night as well as who was robbed.""Surely you don't think any of us was guilty?""I--I think I'll have to refuse to give them, Captain Putnam.""Of course all the boys who sleep in your dormitory were present?""I said I would take this all on my own shoulders, Captain Putnam.Of course, you know I wouldn't have confessed at all; but I don't
wish to give that thief any advantage.""Perhaps the person wasn't a thief at all, only some other cadet
spying upon you.""You may as well give me the names.Hardly knowing whether or not he was doing right, Sam mentioned
all of the cadets who had taken part in the feast.This list
Captain Putnam compared with another containing the names of those
who had been robbed."Thirty-two pupils," he mused."I'll have the whole, school in
this before I finish."The youth wondered what was coming
next, when there was a sudden knock on the door."Come in," said
Captain Putnam, and one of the little boys entered with a letter
in his hand.Strong sent me with this," said the young cadet."He just
found it on the desk in the main recitation room.""All right, Powers; thank you," answered the captain, and took the
letter."You can go," and Powers retired again.The letter was encased in a dirty, envelope on which was printed
in a big hand, in lead pencil:

"CAPT.Taking up a steel blade, the master of the Hall cut open the
envelope and took out the slip of paper it contained.Then he crushed the paper in his
hand and looked sharply at Sam."Samuel, was the party you saw in the hall-way tall and slim?""No; it was too dark for that, and, besides, he had that shawl, or
whatever it was, pretty well up around him.""By the way, you of course know Alexander Pop, our 
waiter."Everybody knows Aleck, and we have had lots of
fun with him, at one time or another.But you surely don't
suspect him, do you?"It contains but two lines, and you can read it
for yourself," and the captain handed over the communication,
which ran as follows:

"Alexander Pop stole that money and the other things."That's a mighty queer letter for anybody to write," murmured Sam,
as he handed it back."Why didn't the writer come to you, as I
have done?""Perhaps he wanted to keep out of trouble.""I don't believe the letter tells the truth, sir.""Because Aleck is too good-hearted a fellow to turn thief.""Well, why don't you have him searched?"Without further ado Sam was dismissed, and Captain Putnam called
George Strong to him and showed the strange letter."He
may have hidden the money and jewelry in his trunk.""We will go up to his apartment," replied Captain Putnam, and a
few minutes later the pair ascended to the attic room which the
 waiter had used for several terms.They found Pop just
fixing up for a trip to Cedarville.He nodded pleasantly, and then looked at both questioningly."Pop, I am afraid I have a very unpleasant duty to perform," began
Captain Putnam."You have heard of the robberies that have been committed?"But--but yo' don't go fo' to distrust me, do
yo', cap'n?"went on the <DW52> man anxiously."I would like to search your trunk and your clothing, Pop.If you
are innocent you will not object.""But, sah, I didn't steal nuffin, sah.""It aint right nohow to'spect an honest  pusson, sah,"
said Aleck, growing angry.I am not guilty, sah, an' dis am not treatin' me jest
right, sah, 'deed it aint, sah.""If you object, Pop, I will be under the painful necessity of
having Snuggers place you under arrest.You know he is a special
officer for the Hall."At this announcement Aleck fell back completely dumfounded."Well, dat's de wust yet!"he muttered, and sank back on a chair,
not knowing what to do next.CHAPTER VIII

IN WHICH ALEXANDER POP RUNS AWAY


"Will you submit to having your trunk examined or not?"demanded
Captain Putnam, after a painful pause, during which Alexander
Pop's eyes rolled wildly from one teacher to the other."Yo' kin examine it if yo' desire," said Aleck."But it's an
outrage, Cap'n Putnam, an' outrage, sah!"Without more ado Captain Putnam approached the waiter's trunk, to
find it locked."Dare, sah, on de nail alongside ob yo' sah."Soon the trunk was unlocked and the lid thrown back.The box
contained a miscellaneous collection of wearing apparel, which the
captain pushed to one side.Then he brought out a cigar box
containing some cheap jewelry and other odds and ends, as well as
two five dollar bills."Dat money am mine, sah," said Aleck."Yo paid me dat las'
Saturday, sall.""That is true, but how did this get here, Pop?"As Captain Putnam paused he held up a stud set with a ruby-the
very stud the cadet Weeks had lost!"Dat--dat stud--I never seen dat shirt-stud before, cap'n,
'deed I didn't," stammered the waiter."That is certainly Weeks' stud; I remember it well," put in George
Strong."He showed it to me one day, stating it was a gift from
his aunt.""And here is a cheap watch," added Captain Putnam, bringing forth
the article."No, sah--I--I never seen dat watch before," answered Aleck
nervously."I dun reckon sumbuddy put up a job on dis poah <DW53>,
sah," he continued ruefully."I believe the job was put up by yourself," answered Captain
Putnam sternly."If you are guilty you had better confess."Alexander Pop stoutly declared
himself innocent, but in the face of the proofs discovered the
master of the Hall would not listen to him."Peleg Snuggers shall take you in charge and drive down to the
Cedarville lock-up," said the captain.The news that some of the things had been found in Pop's trunk
spread with great rapidity.Many were astonished to learn that he
was thought guilty, but a few declared that "a <DW53> wasn't to be
trusted anyway.""<DW65>s are all thieves," said Jim Caven, "never yet saw an
honest one.""Pop's a first-rate fellow,
and the captain has got to have more proof against him before I'll
believe him guilty.""You only say that because he called you down last week," put in
Frank.He referred to a tilt between the new pupil and the
<DW52> man.Jim Caven had tried to be "smart" and had gotten the
worst of the encounter."Yes, I think he's as honest as you are!"burst out Tom, before he
had stopped to think twice.roared Jim Caven, and leaped upon
Tom, with his face as white as the wall."I'll make you smart for
that!"One blow landed on Tom's cheek and another was about to follow,
when Tom dodged and came up under Caven's left arm.Then the two
boys faced each other angrily.cried a number of the cadets, and in a twinkle
a ring was formed around the two contestants."I'm going to give you the worst thrashing you ever had," said
Caven, but in rather a nervous tone."All right, Caven, go ahead and do it," cried Tom."I will stand
up for Aleck Pop, and there you are!"Tom launched forth and caught Caven on the right cheek.The Irish
lad also struck out, but the blow fell short.And
he held Tom with one hand and hit him in the neck with the other.The blow was a telling one, and for a brief instant Tom was dazed.But then he caught his second wind and threw Caven backward.Before the Irish lad could recover his balance, Tom struck him
in the nose, and over rolled his opponent.gasped Jim Caven, as soon as he could speak.and staggering to his feet, he glanced around for
some weapon.Nothing met his view but a garden spade which Peleg
Snuggers had been using, and catching this up he ran for Tom as if
to lay him low forever."He shan't call me a thief!"And he aimed a tremendous blow for Tom's head.Had the spade fallen as intended Tom's cranium might have been split
in twain.But now both Dick and Frank caught the unreasonable youth
and held him while Sam and several others took the spade away.came the unexpected cry from
some outsiders."Yes, give it up, Tom," whispered Sam."We're in hot water enough, on account of that feast.""I'll give it up if Caven is willing," muttered

"I'll meet you another time," answered Caven, and walked rapidly
away.demanded George Strong, as he strode up."Nothing, sir," said one of the boy."Some of the fellows were
wrestling for possession of that spade.""Oh, I was afraid there was a fight," and Mr.He was on his way to the barn, and presently the cadets saw him
come forth with the man-of-fall-work and the light spring wagon."They are going to take poor Aleck to the Cedarville lock-up,"
announced Fred."Poor chap, I never thought this of him!""To me this affair isn't very clear.""I don't believe they will be able to convict him of the crime,"
put in Sam.An hour later Peleg Snuggers started away from Putnam Hall with
his prisoner.Aleck looked the picture of misery as he sat on a
rear seat, his wrists bound together and one leg tied to the wagon
seat with a rope."Dis am a mistake," he groaned.Some of the boys wished to speak to him, but this was not
permitted."You may think I am hard with him," said Captain Putnam, later on,
"but to tell the truth he does not come from a very good family
and he has a step-brother already in prison.""Aleck can't be held responsible for his stepbrother's doings,"
murmured Tom, but not loud enough for the master to hear him.A diligent search had been made for the other stolen articles, but
nothing more was brought to light.If Pop had taken the things he
had either hidden them well or else disposed of them.It was nearly nightfall when Peleg Snuggers drove back to the
Hall.Dick and Tom met him just outside the gates and saw that
the man-of-all-work looked much dejected."Well, Peleg, is he safe in jail?""No, he ain't," was the snappy reply."Why, what did you do with him?"I didn't do nuthin--not me.It was him as did it all--cut
that blessed rope and shoved me over the dashboard on to the
hosses!""Do you mean to say he got away from you?""Yes, he did--got away like a streak o' fightnin', thet's wot he
did, consarn him!"And without another word Peleg drove to the
rear of the Hall, put his team in the barn, and went in to report
to Captain Putnam.Another row resulted, and this nearly cost the utility Man his
position.But it appeared that he was not so much to blame that
Alexander Pop had taken him unawares and finally he was sent away
to his work with the caution to be more careful in the future.Before night and during the next day a hunt was made for the
<DW52> man, but he had left the vicinity entirely, gone to New
York, and shipped on one of the outward-bound ocean vessels.The
Rover boys fancied that they would never see him again, but in
this they were mistaken.CHAPTER IX

THE ROVER BOYS ON WHEELS


"Say, fellows, but this is the greatest sport yet!""I feel like flying, Tom," said Dick Rover."I never thought
wheeling was so grand."It was several weeks later, and the scholars were having a
half-holiday.Just six days before, Randolph Rover had surprised
his three nephews by sending each a handsome bicycle, and it had
taken them hardly any time to learn how to handle the machines."Let us take a ride over to Chardale," said Dick."I understand
that the roads are very good in that direction.""All right, I'm willing," answered Sam, and Tom said the same.Soon the three brothers were on the way, Dick leading and Tom and
Sam coming behind, side by side.It was an ideal day for cycling, cool and clear, and the road they
had elected to take was inviting to the last degree, with its
broad curves, its beautiful trees, and the mountainous views far
to the north and west."It's a wonder we didn't get wheels before," observed Dick."This
beats skating or riding a to bits.""Just you look out that you don't take a header!""This road is all right, but a loose stone might do a pile of
damage.""I've got my eye on the road," answered his big brother."For the
matter of that, we'll all have to keep our eyes open."To reach Chardale they had to cross several bridges and then
descend a long hill, at the foot of which ran the railroad to
several towns north and south.With a laugh, Sam tried
to catch up to him, but could not.went on the
fun-loving Rover, as the hill was gained, and on he started, his
wheel flying faster and faster as yard after yard was covered."I took it off entirely this
morning."This reply had scarcely reached Dick's ears when another sound
came to him which disturbed him greatly.Far away he heard the whistle of a locomotive as it came around
the bottom of the hill.Looking in the direction, he saw the puff
of smoke over the treetops.He tried to cry out, but now the road was rather rough, and he had
to pay strict attention 'to where he was riding."Tom's going to get into trouble," gasped Sam, as he ranged up
alongside of his elder brother."The road crosses the railroad
tracks just below here."As Dick finished he saw a chance to stop and at once dismounted.Then he yelled at the top of his lungs:

"Tom, stop!Stop, or you'll run into the railroad train!"Sam also came to a halt and set up a shout.But Tom was now
speeding along like the wind and did not hear them.Nearer and nearer he shot to the railroad tracks.Then the
whistle of the locomotive broke upon his ears and he turned pale."I don't want to run into that train," he muttered, and tried to
bring his bicycle to a halt.But the movement did not avail without a brake, and so he was
compelled to seek for some side path into which he might guide his
machine.the road was hemmed in with a heavy woods on one side
and a field of rocks on the other.A sudden stop, therefore,
would mean a bad spill, and Tom had no desire to break his bones
by any such proceeding.Nearer and nearer he drew to the railroad crossing.He could now
hear the puffing of the engine quite plainly and caught a glimpse
of the long train over the rocks to his left.On he bounded until
the crossing itself came into view.He was less than a hundred
yards from it--and the oncoming engine was about the same
distance away!There are some moments in one's life that seem hours, and the
present fraction of time was of that sort to poor Tom.He had a
vision of a terrific smash-up, and of Dick and Sam picking up his
lifeless remains from the railroad tracks.he
muttered, and then, just before the tracks were reached, he made
one wild, desperate leap in the direction of a number of bushes
skirting the woods.He turned over and over, hit hard--and for
several seconds knew no more.When Dick and Sam came up they found Tom sitting in the very midst
of the bushes.The bicycle lay among the rocks with the handle-bars
and the spokes of the front wheel badly twisted.asked his big brother sympathetically,
yet glad to learn that Tom had not been ground to death under the
train, which had now passed the crossing."I don't know if I'm hurt or not," was the'slow answer, as Tom
held his handkerchief to his nose, which was bleeding."I tried to plow up these bushes with my head, that's all.I guess
my ankle is sprained, too.""You can't ride that wheel any further," announced Sam.I've had enough, for a few days at least."It was a good quarter of an hour before Tom felt like standing up.Then he found his ankle pained him so much that walking was out of
the question."I'm sure I don't know what I am going to do," he said ruefully."I can't walk and I can't ride, and I don't know as I can stay
here.""Perhaps Dick and I can carry you to Hopeton," said Sam,
mentioning a small town just beyond the railroad tracks.Perhaps the
driver of that will give me a lift."As Tom finished a large farm wagon rattled into sight, drawn by a
pair of bony horses and driven by a tall, lank farmer."Hullo, wot's the matter?"asked the farmer, as he drew rein."No, I've had a smash-up," answered Tom."My brother's ankle is sprained, and we would like to know if you
can give him a lift to the next town," put in Dick."We'll pay you
for your trouble.""That's all right--Seth Dickerson is allers ready to aid a
fellow-bein' in distress," answered the farmer."Can ye git in
the wagon alone?"Tom could not, and the farmer and Dick carried him forward and
placed him on the seat.Then the damaged bicycle was placed in
the rear of the turnout, and Seth Dickerson drove off, while Sam
and Dick followed on their steeds of steel."I see you air dressed in cadet uniforms," remarked the farmer, as
the party proceeded on its way."Be you fellers from Pornell
school?""No; we come from Putnam Hall," answered Tom."Oh, yes--'bout the same thing, I take it.How is matters up to
the school--larnin' a heap?""We are trying to learn all we have to.""Had some trouble up thar, didn't ye?My wife's brother was
a-tellin' me about it.A darkey stole some money an' watches, an'
that like.""They think he stole them," said Tom."Why don't Captain Putnam hunt around them air pawnshops fer the
watches?"went on Seth Dickerson, after a pause."The thief would most likely pawn 'em, to my way of thinkin'.""He hasn't much of a chance to do that.But I presume the police
will keep their eyes open.""I was over to Auburn yesterday--had to go to see about a
mortgage on our farm--and I stopped into one of them pawnbrokin'
shops to buy a shot-gun, if I could git one cheap.While I was in
there a big boy came in and pawned a gold watch an' two shirt
studs.""Is that so," returned Tom, with much interest."What kind of a
looking boy was it?""A tall, slim feller, with reddish hair.He had sech shifty eyes
I couldn't help but think that maybe he had stolen them things
jest to raise some spending money.""He said Jack Smith, but I don't think thet vas correct, for he
hesitated afore he gave it.""A tall, slim fellow, with reddish hair and shifty eyes," mused
Tom."He had on a rough suit of brownish-green and a derby hat with a
hole knocked in one side.""That description fits one of our students exactly.""What's up, Tom; do you feel worse?"asked Dick, as he wheeled as
closely to the seat of the wagon as possible.But I've made a big discovery--at least, I
feel pretty certain that I have?""I've discovered who stole that money and other stuff."CHAPTER X

A STRANGE MESSAGE FROM THE SEA


"Jim Caven!"repeated Dick slowly, "What makes you believe that he
is guilty?"Dickerson here says," answered Tom, and repeated
what the farmer had told him."Gracious, that does look black for Caven!""Would you recognize that boy
again if you saw him?"His eyes was wot got me--never saw
sech unsteady ones afore in my life.""Yes, those eyes put me down on Caven the minute I saw him,"
answered Tom."More than half of the boys at the Hall have put
him down as a first-class sneak, although we can't exactly tell
why.""I think it would be best if Mr.Dickerson
would drive back to the Hall with us and tell Captain Putnam of
what he knows.""And see if he can identify Caven," finished Sam."Are you
willing to do that, Mr."Well, to tell the truth, I've got some business to attend to
now," was the slow reply."I am sure Captain Putnam will pay you for your trouble," went on
Sam."You seem mighty anxious to bring this Caven to justice,"  smiled
the farmer."We are, for two reasons," said Tom."The first is, because he
isn't the nice sort to have around, and the second is, because one
of the men working at the school, a  waiter, whom we all
liked, has been suspected of this crime and had to run away to
avoid arrest."Well--"  The farmer mused for a moment."All right, I'll
go back with ye--and at once."The team was turned around as well as the narrow confines of the
hilly road permitted, and soon the Rover boys were on their way
back to Putnam Hall, a proceeding which pleased Tom in more ways
than one, since he would not have now to put up at a strange
resort to have his ankle and his wheel cared for.They bowled
along at a rapid gait, the horses having more speed in them than
their appearance indicated.They were just turning into the road
leading to Putnam Hall grounds when Dick espied several cadets
approaching, bound for the lake shore."Here come Caven, Willets, and several others!"Dickerson, do you recognize any of those boys?"The farmer gave a searching glance, which lasted until the
approaching cadets were beside the wagon.Then he pointed his
hand at Jim Caven."Thet's the boy I seed over to Auburn, a-pawning thet watch an'
them studs," he announced."He's got his sodger uniform on, but I
know him jest the same."Jim Caven looked at the farmer in astonishment.Then when he
heard Seth Dickerson's words he fell back and his face grew
deathly white."I--I don't know you," he stammered."I seed you over to Auburn, in a pawnshop," repeated Dickerson."I was never over to Auburn
in my life.Why should I go there to a pawnshop?""I guess you know well enough, Caven," said Tom."You bad better
come back to the Hall with us and have a talk with Captain
Putnam."This is--is a--a plot against me,"
stammered the slim youth.cried Dick, and caught Caven by the arm.But
with a jerk the seared boy freed himself and ran down the road at
the top of his speed.Sam and Dick pursued him on their bicycles, while some of the
others came after on foot.Seeing this, Jim Caven took to the
woods just as Dan Baxter had done, and the boys found it
impossible to track him any further."I wonder if he'll come back tonight?"said Dick, as the party
returned to where they had left Seth Dickerson and Tom."I don't think he will," answered Sam."I declare, he must be
almost as bad as the Baxters!"The farm wagon soon reached the Hall, and Dick ushered Seth
Dickerson into Captain Putnam's office.The captain looked
surprised at the unexpected visitor, but listened with deep
concern to all the farmer and the Rover boys had to say."This certainly looks black for Caven," he said at last."I did
not think I had such a bad boy here.And you say he got away from
you?""It is a question if he will come back--providing he is really
guilty.I will have his trunk and bag searched without delay.But if he is guilty how did that ruby stud and the watch come into
Alexander Pop's possession?""He was down on Aleck," replied Tom, who had hobbled in after the
others."And, besides, he thought if Aleck was arrested the
search for the criminal would go no further."It is a sad state of affairs at
the best."The party ascended to the dormitory which Jim Caven occupied with
several smaller boy.His trunk was found locked, but Captain Putnam
took upon himself the responsibility of hunting up a key to fit the
box.Once open the trunk was found to contain, among other things,
a bit of heavy cloth tied with a piece of strong cord.cried the captain, as he undid the
package and brought to light several of the missing watches and
also some of the jewelry."I guess it is a clear case against
Caven, and Pop is innocent.""I wish we could tell Pop of it," put in Dick."I will do what I can for the <DW64>, Rover.I am very sorry
indeed, now, that I suspected him," said Captain Putnam, with a
slow shake of his head.At the bottom of the trunk was a pocketbook containing nearly all
of the money which had been stolen.A footing-up revealed the
fact that two watches and three gold shirt studs were still
missing."And those were pawned in Auburn," said Sam."Just wait and see
if I am not right."A party was organized to hunt for Caven, and the captain himself
went to Auburn that very evening.The hunt for the missing boy
proved unsuccessful, and it may be added here that he never turned
up at Putnam Hall again nor at his home in Middletown, having run
away to the West.When Captain Putnam came back he announced that he had recovered
all but one watch.The various goods and the money were distributed
among their rightful owners, and it must be confessed that a big
sigh of relief went up from the cadets who had suffered.The
single missing timepiece was made good to the boy who had lost it,
by the captain buying a similar watch for the youth.After this several weeks passed without anything of special
interest occurring outside of a stirring baseball match with a
club from Ithaca, which Putnam Hall won by a score of six to
three.In this game Dick made a much-needed home run, thus
covering himself with glory."And they hang together like links of a chain," added Fred."The
friend of one is the friend of all, and the same can be said of an
enemy."One morning a telegraph messenger from Cedarville was seen
approaching the Hall, just as the boys were forming for the
roll-call."Here's a telegram for somebody," said Sam."A message for Richard Rover," announced George Strong, after
receiving it, and handed over the yellow envelope.Wondering what the message could contain and who had sent it, Dick
tore open the envelope and read the brief communication.As his
eyes met the words his head seemed to swim around, so bewildered
was he by what was written there.He
says--but read it for yourselves," and the elder Rover handed
over the message, which ran as follows:

"Have just received a strange message from the sea, supposed to be
written by your father."Oh, I pray Heaven the news
is true!""A strange message from the sea," repeated Dick."Perhaps it's a message that was picked up by some steamer,"
suggested Sam."Anyway, uncle wants us to come home at once.""But of course he wanted all of us to come," put in Tom."Anyway,
four horses couldn't hold me back!""If we hurry up
we can catch the noon boat at Cedarville for Ithaca.""Yes, and the evening train for Oak Run," finished Tom.To tell the truth, that message had fired him
as he had never been fired before.He burst into the captain's
office pell-mell, with Tom and Sam on his heels, to explain the
situation.Ten minutes later--and even this time seemed an age
to the brothers--they were hurrying into their ordinary clothing
and packing, their satchels, while Peleg Snuggers was hitching up
to take them to the landing at Cedarville."Good-by to you, and good luck!"shouted Frank, as they clambered
into the wagon, and many other cadets set up a shout.The Rover boys had turned their backs on dear
old Putnam Hall for a long while to come.CHAPTER XI

THE ROVERS REACH A CONCLUSION


For the three Rover boys the Golden Star could not make the trip
from Cedarville to Ithaca fast enough.They fretted over every
delay, and continually wondered if there was any likelihood of
their missing the train which was to take them to Oak Run, the
nearest railroad station to Valley Brook farm, their uncle's home.But the train was not missed; instead, they had to wait half an
hour for it.During this time they procured dinner, although Dick
felt so strange he could scarcely eat a mouthful."Uncle Randolph doesn't say much," he murmured to Tom."We'll know everything before we go to bed, Dick," answered his
brother."I don't believe Uncle Randolph would telegraph unless
the news was good."They indulged in all sorts of speculation, as the train sped on
its way to Oak Run.When the latter place was reached it was
dark, and they found Jack Ness, the hired man, waiting for them
with the carriage."There, I  knowed it," grinned Jack.Rover calculated that
only Dick would come, but I said we'd have 'em all.""And what is this news of my father?""It's a message as was picked up off the coast of Africky,"
replied Ness.Rover didn't explain very clearly to me.He's
a good deal excited, and so is the missus.""Can it be that father is on his
way home?"Leas'wise, your uncle didn't say
so," concluded the hired man.Never had the horses made better time than they did now, and yet
the boys urged Ness continually to drive faster.Swift River was
soon crossed--that stream where Sam had once had such a stirring
adventure--and they bowled along past the Fox and other farms."There is Uncle Randolph out on the porch to greet us!""I do believe they look
happy, don't you, Tom?""They certainly don't look sad," was the noncommittal answer; and
then the carriage swept up to the horse-block and the three boys
alighted."Well,
perhaps it is just as well so.""We simply couldn't stay behind, uncle,"  said Sam."And we are
dying to know what it all means.""But you must have supper first," put in Aunt Martha, as she gave
one and another a motherly kiss."I know riding on the cars
usually makes Tom tremendously hungry.""Well eat after we have had the news," said Tom."We're dying to
know all, as Sam says.""The news is rather perplexing, to tell the truth," said Randolph
Rover, as he led the way into the library of the spacious home."I hardly know what to make of it.""It came by mail--a bulky letter all the way from Cape Town,
Africa.""No, from a Captain Townsend, who, it seems, commands the clipper
ship Rosabel.came in a shout from all three of the Rover
boys."You had better read the captain's communication first," answered
Randolph Rover."Then you will be more apt to understand the
other.Or shall I read it for the benefit of all?""Yes, yes, you read it, Uncle Randolph," was the answer."The letter is dated at Cape Town, and was written a little over a
month ago.It is addressed to 'Randolph Rover, or to Richard,
Thomas, or Samuel Rover, New York City,' and is further marked
'Highly Important-Do Not Lose or Destroy.'""Do hurry and tell
us, Uncle Randolph."And then his uncle read as follows:

"TO THE ROVER FAMILY, New York:

"I am a stranger to you, but I deem it my duty to write to you on
account of something which occurred on the 12th day of April last,
while my clipper ship Rosabel, bound from Boston, U. S. A., to
Cape Town, Africa, was sailing along the coast of Congo but a few
miles due west from the mouth of the Congo River."Our ship had been sent in by a heavy gale but the wind had gone
down, and we were doing more drifting than sailing to the
southward when the lookout espied a man on a small raft which was
drifting toward us."On coming closer, we discovered that the man was white and that
he looked half starved.We put out a boat and rescued the poor
creature  but he had suffered so much from spear wounds and
starvation that, on being taken on board of our ship, he
immediately relapsed into insensibility, and out of this we failed
to arouse him.He died at sundown, and we failed, even to learn
him name or home address."On searching the dead man's pockets we came across the enclosed
letter, addressed to you, and much soiled from water.As you will
see, it is dated more than a year back and was evidently in the
possession of the man who died for some time.Probably he started
out to deliver it, or to reach some point from which it could be
mailed."I trust that the message becomes the means of rescuing the
Anderson Rover mentioned in the letter, and I will be pleased to
learn if this letter of mine is received.The Rosabel sails from
Cape Town to Brazil as soon as her cargo can be discharged and
another taken on."Very truly yours,

"JOHN V. TOWNSEND, Captain."As Randolph Rover ceased reading there was a brief silence, broken
by Tom."So the man who died held a letter.And what is in that, Uncle
Randolph?""I will read it to you, boys, although that is a difficult matter,
for the writing is uneven and much blurred.On one part of the
sheet there is a blot of blood--the blood, I presume--of the
poor fellow who was trying to deliver the communication."Unfolding the stained document, Randolph Rover bent closer to the
table lamp that he might read the more easily.As for the boys,
they fairly held their breaths, that no spoken word might escape
them."The letter is addressed to me," said the uncle."But the
envelope is, as you can see, very much torn.I will read," and he
did so."NIWILI CAMP, on the Congo,

"July the 18th, 189--."DEAR BROTHER RANDOLPH:

"If, by the goodness of God, this reaches you, I trust that you
will set out without delay to my assistance."I write under great difficulties, as a prisoner, of the Bumwo
tribe of natives, ruled by King Susko."I have discovered the secret of a gold mine here, and the king
will not let me go, fearing that I will tell the outside world of
my discovery and bring the English or French here to slay him and
his followers."I entrust this to the care of an English sailor who is going to
try to make his escape.I cannot go myself, having had my leg
broken by a blow from one of my jailers."I am sick and weak in body, and it may be that I will soon die.Yet I beg of you to do what you can for me.If I die, I trust you
to be a father to my dear boys, Dick, Tom, and Sam, and ask Martha
for me to be a mother to them."The king expects soon to remove to another camp at a place called
Rhunda Konoka (the Water Well).Perhaps he will take me along, or
else he may slay me."All those who were with me are dead excepting several natives who
have joined the Burnwo tribe."Good-by, and do what you can until you are certain that I am
dead."Your loving brother,

"ANDERSON ROVER"

When Randolph Rover ceased reading he saw that there were tears in
the eyes of all of the boys, and that his wife was also crying.His own voice had had to be cleared continually.To all the
letter was like a message from the grave."That is all, my boy--and the letter was written about a year
ago!""But we'll go in search of him!""I thought I would go," answered Randolph Rover, "and I thought,
possibly, that I might take Dick with me.""I could never bear to
be left behind.""And you must take me," interrupted Sam."We always go together,
you know."At this talk Randolph Rover was somewhat taken aback."Why, what would three boys do in the heart of Africa?""I shan't stay behind--you can't
make me!""We have been through lots of adventures, uncle, you know that,"
came from Sam."But the danger, boys--" began the uncle."What danger wouldn't we face for father's sake!""I'd
go through fire and water for him.""You had better let us all go," said Dick."If you don't let Tom and Sam go, why, the chances are they'll--"

"Run away and go anyway," finished Sam."Oh, Uncle Randolph, say we can go; please do!""All-right, boys; as you are bound to have it so, you shall all
go.But don't blame me if the perils are greater than you
anticipate, and if the undertaking costs one or more of you your
lives."OFF FOR AFRICA


It was long after midnight before the conversation in relation to
the proposed trip to Africa came to an end.Rover insisted
that the boys should eat something, and they sat around the table
discussing the viands and the two letters at the same time."Have you any idea where this Niwili Camp is?""It is on the Congo, but how far froth the mouth of that stream is
a question, lad.Probably we can learn all about it when we reach
Boma, the capital of the Congo Free State.""The Congo is a pretty big stream, isn't it?"At its mouth it is about ten miles wide, and
it is from twelve to fourteen hundred miles long.Stanley traced
its course after an expedition in which he fought over thirty
battles with the natives."The natives that live close to the
ocean are peaceable enough, so I have been told.""And how are we going to get there?""I don't suppose
there are any regular steamers running to the Congo."I have written to a shipping firm in New York
for information, and they will probably send word by morning," was
the answer.It can well be imagined that the boys slept but little that night.In the morning they telegraphed to Putnam Hall for their trunks,
and also let Captain Putnam and their chums know how matters
stood.Then began preparations for such a tour as none of them
had ever before anticipated.Word came from New York in the early afternoon mail, and the
information sent was highly satisfactory to Randolph Rover.The
French steamer Republique was in port, loading for Boma and other
African ports, and would set sail on the coming Saturday.The
firm had taken upon itself the responsibility to speak of passage
for Mr."Uncle Randolph, you had better telegraph to
them at once for passage for the four of us."Mary went to the hallway.Rover, and the telegram was sent within
the hour.As but little in the way of outfits
could be procured in Oak Run or the adjoining villages, it was
decided that they should go down to New York on Thursday afternoon
and spend all of Friday in purchasing in the metropolis whatever
was needed.The only person who was really sober was Mrs.Rover, for she hated
to see her husband start on such a journey, which was bound to, be
full of grave perils."I am afraid you will never come back," she said, with tears in
her eyes."And if you and Anderson are both dead to me, what will
I do?""I feel certain that
a kind Providence will watch over us and bring us all back in
safety."At last the party was ready to set off.A fond good-by was said,
and away they rattled in the carryall for the railroad station at
Oak Run.shouted Tom, as he waved his cap to his aunt,
who stood beside the gateway."And when we come back may we bring father with us," added Dick,
and Sam muttered an amen.The journey down to New York was without incident, and as the
Rovers had lived in the metropolis for years they felt thoroughly
at home and knew exactly where to go for their outfit and suitable
clothing for use in such a warm country was procured, and in
addition each was armed with a revolver.Rover also purchased
a shot-gun and a rifle, and likewise a number of cheap gold and
silver trinkets."The natives are becoming civilized," he explained."But, for all
that, I am certain a small gift now and then will go a long way
toward making friends."The found that the Republique was a stanch-built steamer of eight
thousand tons burden.Her captain, Jules Cambion, spoke English
quite fluently and soon made them feel at home.He was much
interested in the story Randolph Rover had to tell concerning his
missing brother."'Tis a strange happening, truly," he remarked."I sincerely
trust that your search for him proves successful and that he
returns to the arms of his family unharmed.I have visited it twice, and I know.""I am glad to learn that you have been up the Congo," replied
Randolph Rover."Perhaps during your leisure hours on the trip
you will not mind giving me such information as conics to your
mind.""I will tell you all I know willingly," answered Captain Cambion.Exactly at noon on Saturday the Republique was ready to sail, and
with a shout from those on the wharf who had come to see the few
passengers off, she sheered away and started down the bay, past
Bedloe Island and the Statue of Liberty.Before night the shore
line had faded from view, and they were standing out boldly into
the Atlantic Ocean."Off for Africa at last," murmured Sam, who had been standing at
the rail watching the last speck of land as it disappeared."What
a big trip this is going to be!""Never mind how big it is, Sam," came from Tom,  "if only it is
successful."The first few days on board were spent in settling themselves.The party had two connecting staterooms, and Mr.Rover and Sam
occupied one, while Dick and Tom had settled themselves in the
other.The passengers were mostly French people, who were going to try
their fortunes in French Congo.There was, however, one
Englishman, a man named Mortimer Blaze, who was bound out simply
for adventure."I'm tired of England, and tired of America too," he explained."I've hunted through the Rocky Mountains and up in Canada, as well
as at home, and now I'm going to try for a lion or a tiger in
Africa.""Perhaps the lion or tiger will try for you," smiled Tom."It will be a pitched battle, that's all," drawled Mortimer Blaze.He was rather a sleepy looking man, but quick to act when the
occasion demanded.The weather was all that could be wished, and during the first
week out the Republique made good progress.On a steamer there
was but little for the boys to do, and they spent all of their
spare time in reading the books on Africa which Captain Cambion
had in his library, and which were printed in English.Often they
persuaded the genial captain to tell them of his adventures in
that far-away country."You have many strange sights before you," he said to them one
day."The strange vegetation, the immense trees, the wonderful
waterfalls, some larger than your own Niagara, and then the odd
people.Some of the natives are little better than dwarfs, while
others are six feet and more in height and as straight as arrows."Did you ever hear of this King Susko?""Yes; I have heard of him several times.He is known as the
Wanderer, because he and his tribe wander from place to place,
making war on the other tribes."The captain knew nothing of Niwili Camp and expressed the opinion
that it had been, like many other camps, only a temporary affair.He said that the best the party could do was to strike straight up
the Congo, along the south shore, and question the different
natives met concerning King Susko's present whereabouts.On the beginning of the second week a storm was encountered which
lasted for three days.At first the wind blew at a lively rate,
and this was followed by thunder and lightning and a regular
deluge of rain, which made all of the boys stay below.The
steamer pitched from side to side and more than one wave broke
over her decks."This is the worse storm I ever saw," remarked Dick, as he held
fast to a chair in the cabin."They won't be able to set any
table for dinner today."came from Sam, with a groan."Who wants any dinner, when a fellow feels as if he was going to
be turned inside out!"So far none of the boys had suffered from
seasickness, but now poor Sam was catching it, and the youngest
Rover felt thoroughly miserable."Never mind, the storm won't last forever," said Dick
sympathetically."Perhaps you had better lie down, Sam.""How can I, with the ship tossing like a cork?I've got to hold
on, same as the rest, and be glad, I suppose, that I am alive,"
and poor Sam looked utterly miserable.It was very close in the cabin, but neither door nor port-hole
could be opened for fear of the water coming in.Dinner was a
farce, to use Tom's way of expressing it, for everything was cold
and had to be eaten out of hand or from a tin cup.Yet what was
served tasted very good to those who were hungry."I believe we'll go to the bottom before we are done," began Sam,
when a loud shout from the deck reached the ears of all of the
Rovers and made Tom and Dick leap to their feet.Above the wind they could hear a yell from a distance, and then
came more cries from the deck, followed by a bump on the side of
the steamer."But I guess it wasn't hard enough to do much damage.""That remains to be seen," answered Dick."Storm or no storm, I'm
gong on deck to learn what it means," and he hurried up the
companionway.CHAPTER XIII

A RESCUE IN MID-OCEAN


Dick found that he could remain on the deck only with the greatest
of difficulty.Several life lines had been stretched around and
he clung to one of these."Struck a small boat," was the answer."It had a <DW52> man in
it.But the captain thinks he may get over
it, with care," and the sailor hurried away.Dick now saw several men approaching, carrying the form of the
rescued one between them.He looked at the unconscious man and
gave a cry of amazement."I know him very well," answered Dick."He used to work at the
military academy where my brothers and I were cadets."And the
boy told Captain Cambion the particulars of Alexander Pop's
disappearance from Putnam Hall."I am glad that I will be able to
tell him that his innocence is established," he concluded."All providing we are able to bring him around to himself, Master
Rover," returned the captain gravely."You think, then, that he is in bad shape?"We will take him below and do all
we can for him."It was no easy matter to transfer Pop to one of the lower
staterooms, but once placed on a soft berth the Rovers did all
they could for him."It is like a romance," said Sam, while Randolph Rover was
administering some medicine to the unconscious man."He's been suffering from starvation," put in Dick."I suppose he
gave that yell we heard with his last breath."All of the party watched over the <DW52> man with tender care,
and feeling that he could be in no better hands the captain left
him entirely in his friends' charge."When he comes to his senses
you can let me know," he said.Dick was watching by Pop's side, and Tom was at the foot of the
berth, when the <DW52> man opened his eyes.As they rested on
first one Rover and then the other he stared in utter astonishment."Am I dreamin', or am I
back to Putnam Hall again?""You are safe on board an ocean
steamer.""An' yo'--whar yo' dun come from?""We are passengers on the steamer," said Tom."You were picked up
several hours ago.""Yes, but--but I can't undersand dis nohow!"persisted the
<DW52> man, and tried to sit up, only to fall back exhausted."Don't try to understand it, Aleck, until you are stronger," said
Dick."Anyt'ing, sah, anyt'ing!Why, I aint had, no reg'lar meal in
most a week!""Glory to Heaben dat I am
sabed!"And then he said no more for quite a long, while.The soup was already at hand, and it was Dick who fed it slowly
and carefully, seeing to it that Pop should have no more than his
enfeebled stomach could take care of, for overfeeding, so Mr.Rover had said, might kill the man.The next day Pop was able to sit up, although still too weak to
stand on his legs.He was continually praising Heaven for his
safety."I dun Vink I was a goner more dan once," he said."I was on de
ocean all alone about a week, I reckon, although I lost time ob
days after I'd been out two or Vree nights."Perhaps you were, Aleck," said Sam."But tell us how you got in
that position.""Dat am de queerest part ob it, Master Rober--de queerest part
of it.I got into de small boat fo' a sleep, and de fust Ving I
knowed I was miles an' miles away from eberyt'ing; yes, sah-miles
an' miles away on de boundless ocean, an' not so much as a fishin'
smack sail in sight.Golly, but wasn't I scared--I reckon I dun
most turn white!"And Aleck rolled his eyes around impressively."You were in a small boat attached to some steamer?"Da had been usin' de small boat fo' surnt'ing, and
left her overboard.""I don't tink I was--but I aint shuah nohow.""De Harrison, from Brooklyn, bound to Cuba.""Did you ship on her after you left Putnam Hall in such a hurry?"I did, cos I didn't want de police to coted me.But, say, as
true as I stand heah--mean sit heah--I aint guilty of stealin'
dem watches an' t'ings, no I aint!""Captain Putnam made a
great mistake when he dun suspect me.""We thought you innocent all
along, Aleck.""T'ank yo' fo' dat, Master Rober--I'se glad to see dat I'se got
one friend--"

"Three friends, Aleck--we all stood up for you," interrupted
Tom."T'ank yo', t'ank yo'!""And we discovered who the real thief was," added Sam."Wot, yo' dun found, dat out!""An' who was de
black-hearted rascal?""Dat cadet wot tried to be funny wid me an' I had to show him his
place?Hol' on--I dun see him comin' from de attic one day.""When he must have put those stolen articles in your trunk," said
Tom."Yes, he was guilty, Captain Putnam was going to have him
arrested, but he got away."Nothing would do for Alexander Pop after this but that the boys
give him the full particulars of the affair, to which he listened
with the closest attention."Ise mighty glad I am cleared," he said."But I'd give a good
deal to face de cap'n--jest to see wot he would say, eh?""He said he was sorry he had suspected you," said Dick."What a big fool dis darkey was to run away!""I wasn't cut out fo' no sailer man.Ise been sick
most ebery day since I left shoah.By de way, whar is dis ship
bound?"Shuah yo' is foolin', Massah Dick?"We and our uncle are bound for the Congo River."Dat's whar my great gran' fadder dun come from--so I
heard my mammy tell, years ago.I don't want to go dar, not me!""I don't see how you are going to help yourself, Aleck.The first
stop this steamer will make will be at Boma on the Congo River.""'Wot am I to do when I gits dar?Perhaps the captain will let you remain
on the Republique."I don't t'ink I could stand dat.An'
what am yo' going to do in Africa?""We are going on a hunt for my father, who has been missing for
years."Again Aleck had to be told the particulars and again he was
tremendously interested.When the boys had finished he sat in
silence for several minutes."I've got it-jest de t'ing!"Foah gen'men like yo' don't want to
go to Africa widout a valet nohow.Let me be de workin' man fe de
crowd.I'll take de job, cheap,--an' glad ob de chance.""Hullo, that's an idea!""Will yo' do it, Massah Dick?""We'll have to speak to my uncle about it first.""Well, yo' put in a good word fo' me.Yo know I always stood by
yo' in de school," pleaded the <DW52> man."I don't want to be
driftin' around jess nowhar, wid nuffin to do, an' no money comin'
in--not but what I'll work cheap, as I dun said I would," he
added hastily.A little later Randolph Rover joined the group and Aleck's
proposition was laid before him.Strange to say he accepted the
<DW52> man's offer immediately, greatly to the wonder of the
boys, and from that minute on Pop be came a member of the
searching party."I will tell you why I did it," explained Randolph Rover to the
boys in private."When we get into the jungle we will need a man
we can trust and one who is used to American ways.Moreover, if
there is any spying to be done among the natives the chances are
that a black man can do it better than a white man.""Uncle Randolph, you've got a long head," remarked Tom."No doubt
Aleck will prove just the fellow desired."And Tom was right, as
later events proved.CHAPTER XIV

A STRANGE MEETING IN BOMA


The storm delayed the passage of the Republique nearly a week, in
a manner that was totally unexpected by the captain.The fierce
waves, running mountain high, wrenched the screw and it was found
next to impossible to repair the accident.Consequently the
steamer had to proceed under a decreased rate of speed.This was tantalizing to the boys, and also to Randolph Rover, for
everyone wished to get ashore, to start up the Congo as early as
possible.But all the chafing in the world could not help
matters, and they were forced to take things as they came.A place was found among the sailors for Aleck, and soon he began
to feel like himself once more.But the sea did not suit the
<DW52> man, and he was as anxious as his masters to reach shore
once more."It's a pity da can't build a mighty bridge over de ocean, an' run
kyars," he said."Perhaps they'll have a bridge some day resting on boats, Aleck,"
answered Tom."But I don't expect to live to see it.""Yo' don't know about dat, chile.Did
yo'gran'fadder expect to ride at de rate ob sixty miles an hour?Did he expect to send a telegram to San Francisco in a couple ob
minutes?Did he eber dream ob talkin' to sumboddy in Chicago froo
a telephone?Did he knew anyt'ing about electric lights, or
movin' pictures, or carriages wot aint got no bosses, but run wid
gasoline or sumfing like dat?I tell yo, Massah Tom, we don't
know wot we is comin' to!""You are quite right, Alexander," said Mr.Rover, who had
overheard the talk.Some
day I expect to grow com and wheat, yes, potatoes and other
vegetables, by electricity," and then Randolph Rover branched off
into a long discourse on scientific farming that almost took away
poor Aleck's breath."He's a most wonderful man, yo' uncle!"whispered the <DW52> man
to Sam afterward."Fust t'ing yo' know he'll be growin' corn in
de com crib already shucked!"On and on over the mighty Atlantic bounded the steamer.One day
was very much like another, excepting that on Sundays there was a
religious service, which nearly everybody attended.The boys had
become quite attached to Mortimer Blaze and listened eagerly to
the many hunting tales he had to tell."I wish you were going with us," said Tom to him."I like your
style, as you Englishman put it.""Thanks, Rover, and I must say I cotton to you, as the Americans
put it," laughed the hunter."Well, perhaps we'll meet in the
interior, who knows?"I am hoping to meet some friends at Boma.The steamer bad now struck the equator, and as it was midsummer
the weather was extremely warm, and the smell of the oozing tar,
pouring from every joint, was sickening."Dis am jest right," he said."I could sleep eall de time,
'ceptin' when de meal gong rings.""When you land,
Alexander, you ought to feel perfectly at home.""Perhaps, sah; but I dun reckon de United States am good enough
for any man, sah, white or.""It's the greatest country on the
globe."It was a clear day a week later when the lookout announced land
dead ahead.It proved to be a point fifteen miles above the mouth
of the Congo, and at once the course was altered to the southward,
and they made the immense mouth of the river before nightfall.Far away dashed the waves against an
immense golden strand, backed up by gigantic forests of tropical
growth and distant mountains veiled in a bluish mist: The river
was so broad that they were scarcely aware that they were entering
its mouth until the captain told them.When night came the lights of Boma could be distinctly seen,
twinkling silently over the bay of the town.They dropped anchor
among a score of other vessels; and the long ocean trip became a
thing of the past."I'm all ready to go ashore," said Tom."My, but won't it feel good to put foot on land again!""The ocean is all well enough, but
a fellow doesn't want too much of it.""And yet I heard one of the French sailors say that he hated the
land," put in Sam."He hadn't set foot on shore for three years.When they reach port he always remains on deck duty until they
leave again."Mortimer Blaze went ashore at once, after bidding all of the party
a hearty good-by."And, anyway,
good luck to you!""Hope you bag all of the lions
and tigers you wish," and so they parted, not to meet again for
many a day.It was decided that the Rovers should not leave the ship until
morning.It can well be imagined that none of the boys slept
soundly that night.All wondered what was before them, and if
they should succeed or fail in their hunt."Dis aint much ob a town," remarked Aleck, as they landed, a
little before noon, in a hot, gentle shower of rain."There is only one New York, as there is but one London," answered
Randolph Rover."Our architecture would never do for such a hot
climate."Along the river front was a long line of squatty warehouses,
backed up by narrow and far from clean streets, where the places
of business were huddled together, and where a good share of the
trading was done on the sidewalk.The population was a very much
mixed one, but of the Europeans the English and French
predominated.The natives were short, fat, and exceedingly greasy
appearing.Hardly a one of them could speak English."I don't see any Americans," remarked Dick."I suppose--"

"There is an American store!"burst out Sam, pointing across the
way.He had discovered a general trading store, the dilapidated
sign of which read:

          SIMON HOOK,

       Dealer in Everything."I'd like to go in
and see Simon Hook.Rover was willing, and they entered the low and dingy-looking
establishment, which was filled with boxes, barrels, and bags of
goods.They found the proprietor sitting in an easy chair, his feet on a
desk, and a pipe in his mouth."That's me," was the answer; but Mr.Hook did not offer to rise,
nor indeed to even shift his position."We saw your sign and as we are Americans we thought we would drop
in," went on Mr."That's right; glad to see you," came from the man in the chair;
but still he did not offer to shift his position."It's a fool's place to come to, sonny.When these goods are sold
I'm going to quit."Simon Hook paused long enough to take an
extra whiff from his pipe."We are on a hunt for a missing man," answered Randolph Rover.His name is Anderson Rover, and he is my
brother."He was a gold hunter from Californy, or somethin' like that.""Went up the Congo four or five years ago--maybe longer?"He had lots of money, and took several guides
and a number of other, natives along.""Have you seen or heard of him since?""Because them as goes up the Congo never, comes back.It's a
fool's trip among those wild people of the interior.Stanley went
up, but look at the big party he took with him and the many fights
he had to get back alive."At this announcement the hearts of the Rover boys fell.I reckon he's either lost in the jungle or
among the mountains, or else the natives have taken care of him.""Did he say anything about the trail he was going to take?""He was going to take the Rumbobo trail, most all of 'em do.""Say, can I sell you any of these
old things of mine cheap?""Glad to see you," and as they left the shopkeeper waved them a
pleasant adieu with his hand."I guess he has grown tired of trying to sell goods," observed
Tom."Perhaps he knows that if folks want the things he has to sell
they are bound to come to him," said Dick."His store seems to
be the only one of its sort around."The hotel for which they were bound was several squares away,
located in something of a park, with pretty flowers and a
fountain.It was a two-story affair, with spacious verandas and
large rooms, and frequented mostly by English and French people.They had just entered the office; and Randolph Rover was writing
his name in the register, when Dick caught sight of somebody in
the reading room that nearly took away his breath.It is Dan Baxter--Dan
Baxter, just as sure as you are born!"CHAPTER XV

CAPTAIN VILLAIRE'S LITTLE PLOT


Dick was right: the boy in the reading-room' was indeed Dan Baxter,
but so changed in appearance that for the minute neither Tom nor
Sam recognized him.In the past Baxter had always been used to fine clothing, which he
had taken care should be in good repair.Now his clothing was
dilapidated and his shoes looked as if they were about ready to
fall apart.More than this, his face was hollow and careworn, and one eye
looked as if it had suffered severe blow of some sort.Altogether
he was most wretched-looking specimen of humanity, and it was a
wonder that he was allowed at the hotel.But the truth of the
matter was that he had told the proprietor a long tale of
sufferings in the interior and of a delayed remittance from home,
and the hotel keeper was keeping him solely on this account."He looks like a regular
tramp!""He's been in hard luck, that's certain," came from Sam."I
wonder how he drifted out here?"While Sam was speaking Dan Baxter raised his eyes from the
newspaper and glanced around.As his gaze fell upon the three
Rover boys he started and the paper fell to the floor, then he got
up and strode toward them."From Putnam Hall, Baxter," answered Dick quietly.Ordinarily Dan Baxter would have retorted that that was none of
Dick's business, but now he was in thoroughly low spirits, and he
answered meekly:

"I've been playing in hard luck.I went down to New York and one
night when I was in a sailors' boarding house I drank more than
was good for me, and when I woke up in the morning I found myself
on a vessel bound for Africa.""You were shanghaied as a sailor?""That's it, and while I was on board the Costelk the captain and
mate treated me worse than a dog.The captain did
that, and when I struck back he put me in irons and fed me nothing
but stale biscuits and water.""No; she was bound for Cape Town, but stopped here for supplies,
and I jumped overboard at night and swam ashore, and here I am,
and sorry for it," and Dan Baxter drew a long breath.The Rovers were astonished at his meek manner.Was this really
the domineering Baxter, who had always insisted on having his own
way, and who had done so many wrong deeds in the past?"You've had a hard time of it, I suppose?said Dick, hardly
knowing how to go on."Hard, Dick, aint no word," came from the former bully of Putnam
Hall."I've run up against the worst luck that anybody could ever
imagine.But I reckon you don't care about that?""Do you think we ought to care, Baxter?""Well, it aint fair to take advantage of a chap when he's down on
his luck," grumbled the former bully."I guess I've learnt my
lesson all right enough.""Do you mean to say you are going to turn over a new leaf?""Yes, if I ever get the chance."Randolph Rover now joined the group, and Dick explained the
situation.Rover questioned Baxter closely and found that he
was without a cent in his pocket and that the hotel keeper had
threatened to put him out if he was not able to pay up inside of
the next twenty-four hours."See here, Baxter, you never were my friend, and you never
deserved any good from me, but I don't like to see a dog suffer,"
said Dick."I'll give you thirty shillings, and that will help
you along a little," and he drew out his purse."And I'll give you the same," came from Tom."But don't forget that what Dick says
is true, nevertheless."Ninety English shillings--about twenty-two dollars of our money--was
more cash than Dan Baxter had seen in some time, his other
money having been spent before he had taken his unexpected ocean
trip, and his eyes brightened up wonderfully."I'll be much obliged to you for the--the loan," he stammered."I'll pay you back some time, remember.""My advice to you is, to take the first ship you can for home.""And what brought you out here--going on a hunt for your
father?""You'll have a big job finding him.I understand the natives of
the Congo are going on the warpath before long.They have had
some difficulty with the settlers.""I guess we'll manage to take care of ourselves," answered Tom,
and then he and his brothers followed their uncle up to the rooms
which had been engaged for them during their stay in the town."He's, down in the mouth, and no mistake," was Tom's comment, when
the boys were left to themselves."I never saw him so humble
before.""Perhaps knocking around has taught him a lesson," said Dick."I
hope he really does turn over a new leaf."Randolph Rover gathered all the
information he could concerning the trail along the Congo, and
also tried to locate Niwili Camp.He likewise purchased several
additions to his outfits from Simon Hook, and engaged the services
of several natives, the leader of whom was a brawny black named
Cujo, a fellow who declared that he knew every foot of the
territory to be covered and who said he was certain that he could
locate King Susko sooner or later."Him bad man," he said soberly."No et him catch you, or you
suffer big lot!"Cujo took to Aleck from the start, and the pair
soon became warm friends.The African inspected their outfits
with interest and offered several suggestions regarding additional
purchases.Three days were spent in Boma, and during that time the Rovers saw
a good deal of Dan Baxter, who, having nothing better to do, hung
around them continually.He remained as meek as before, but our
friends did not know that this was merely the meekness of a savage
cur while under the whip.Baxter was naturally a brute, and
lacked the backbone necessary far genuine reformation."Say, why can't you take me with you?"he asked, on the day that
the Rover expedition was to start out."I'm willing to do my
share of the work and the fighting, and I won't charge you a cent
for my service.""I don't know as my uncle wants anybody along," said Sam, to whom
Baxter addressed his remarks."Well, won't you speak to him about it, Sam?I can't find
anything to do here, and the captains to whom I've applied don't
want me on their ships," pleaded the former bully of Putnam Hall.Sam was easily touched at all times, and he knew that Baxter must
feel lonely and wretched so far from home and without friends or
capital.He at once went to his brothers and his uncle and laid
the big youth's proposition before them."We don't want him," said Dick promptly."I don't believe he would be of any use to us.""I would rather give him some more money just for him to stay
behind," added Tom."Well, I don't like Baxter any more than the others do.But it
seems awfully hard on him.I don't believe he knows how to turn.""We might give him enough money to get back to the United States
with.""I'd rather have you do that, Uncle Randolph," said Dick."I
don't want him with me.""I will have a talk with the misguided boy," was the conclusion
reached by Randolph Rover; but he got no chance to speak to Dan
Baxter until late in the afternoon, and then, to his astonishment,
Baxter's manner had changed entirely, he intimating that he wanted
nothing more to do with them.For in the meantime something which was bound to be of great
importance to the Rovers had occurred.In Boma were a number of
persons of mixed French and native blood who were little better
than the old-time brigands of Italy.They were led by a wicked
wretch who went by the name of Captain Villaire.Villaire had
been watching the Rovers for two days when he noticed the coldness
which seemed to exist between, our friends and Baxter.At once he
threw himself in Baxter's way and began to it pump the youth
regarding the Americans."Zay are going into the interior, you have remarked," he said in
very bad English."Yes, they are well fixed," answered the tall youth."And zay do carry zare money wid zem?""I guess not--at least, not much of it.""Yes, I hate them," muttered Dan, and his eyes shone wickedly."I'm only treating them in a friendly way now because I'm out of
money and must do something."It ees a good head you have--verra good," murmured
Captain Villaire."Do you know, I heara dem talk about you?""De one boy say you should be in ze jail; didn't you robba
somebody.""You lika do somet'ing wid me?"continued the French native,
closing one eye suggestively.He was a close reader of human
nature and had read Baxter's character as if it was an open book."We gitta dem people into trouble--maka big lot of money.""All right--I'll do anything," answered Baxter savagely."So
they said I ought to be in jail, eh?"You helpa me, I helpa you," went on the wily French native.He had his plan all ready, and, after sounding Baxter some more,
revealed what was in his mind, which was simply to follow the
Rovers into the interior and then make them prisoners.Once this
was done, they would hold the prisoners for a handsome ransom."That's a big job," answered the big youth."But I like your
plan, first-rate if you can carry it out.""I have half a dozen of ze
best of killowers-za, nevair fail me.But as you knowa dem you
will have to do ze lettair writing for us, so zat we git ze money
from zare people at home.""Trust me for that," responded Baxter quickly."You do the capturing and I'll make Mrs.Rover or
somebody else pay up handsomely, never fear."And so a compact was formed which was to give the Rovers a good
deal of trouble in the near future.CHAPTER XVI

THE START UP THE CONGO


"It was queer Dan Baxter should act so," said Sam to his uncle,
when Mr.Rover came back from his interview with the bully."I
thought he wanted to, go the worst way.""He acted as if he had struck something else," answered Randolph
Rover."He didn't even want the money I offered.Perhaps he has
received a remittance from home.""His father is still in
jail.""Perhaps he got Mumps to send it to him," said Sam."But I
forgot, Mumps is away."There was no time to discuss the situation further, for they were
to start early on the following morning, and there were yet a
dozen small matters which must be given attention.All were busy,
and it was not until after eleven that evening that they turned
in.The day for the departure from Boma dawned bright and clear, and
Cujo appeared with his assistants while they were still eating
breakfast."Werry good day for um journey," he said, with a grin."Make good
many miles if nothing go wrong.""You can't do any too well for me," answered Dick."I hope our
expedition into the interior is both short and successful."At first they had thought to go
on horseback; but this was abandoned by the advice of the native,
who declared that horses would prove more of a drag than a help in
many places."Horse canno' climb tree bridge," he explained."No climb high
rock, no go around bad hill.We go on foot an' make better time."The town was soon left behind and they struck a highway which for
several miles afforded easy traveling.On all sides were dense
groves of tropical growth, palms, mangoes, and the like, with
enormous vines festooned from one tree to the next.Underneath
were a great variety, of ferns and mosses, the homes of countless
insects and small animals.The ground was black and wherever
turned up gave forth a sickly odor of decayed vegetation."That is regular fever territory," explained Randolph Rover."Boys, do not sleep on the ground if you can possibly avoid it.I
sincerely trust that none of us take the tropical fever.""If I feel it coming on I'll take a good dose of quinine,"
declared Tom.Fortunately they had brought along a good supply of that valuable
drug.On one side
of the highway was the broad river, which glinted like molten lead
in the sunshine.They could not travel very close to its bank,
for here the ground was uncertain.Once Sam left the highway to
get a better view of the stream, and, before Cujo noticed it,
found himself up to his knees in a muck which stuck to him like so
much glue.roared the youngest Rover, and all of the party
turned, to behold him waving his hand frantically toward them.exclaimed Aleck, and started to go
to Sam's assistance, when Cujo called him back."Must be werry careful," said the native."Ground bad over
dare--lose life if urn don't have a care.And he
approached Sam by a circuitous route over the tufts of grass
which grew like so many dots amid the swamp.Soon he was close
enough to throw the youth the end of a rope he carried.The pull
that, followed nearly took Sam's arms out by the sockets; but the
boy was saved, to return to the others of the party with an
experience which was destined to be very useful to him in, the
future."It will teach me to be careful of where I am going after this,"
he declared."Why, that bog looked almost as safe as the ground
over here!""Tropical places are all full of just such treacherous swamps,"
returned Randolph Rover."It will be wise for all of us to
remember that we are now in a strange territory and that we must
have our eyes and ears wide open."At half-past eleven they came to a halt for dinner.The sun was
now almost overhead, and they were glad enough to seek the shelter
of a number of palms standing in front of a--native hostelry."We will rest here until two o'clock," said Mr."It is all
out of the question to travel in the heat of the day, as we did
yesterday, in such a climate as this.They found the hostelry presided over by a short, fat native who
scarcely spoke a word of English.But he could speak French, and
Mr.Rover spoke to him in that language, while Cujo carried on a
talk in the native tongue.The midday repast was cooked over a
fire built between several stones.The boys watched the cooking
process with interest and were surprised to find, when it came to
eating, that the food prepared tasted so good.They had antelope
steak and a generous supply of native bread, and pure cocoa, which
Tom declared as good as chocolate.After the meal they took it easy in a number of grass hammocks
stretched beneath the wide spreading palms surrounding the wayside
inn, if such it might be called.Aleck and Cujo fell to smoking
and telling each other stories, while the Rovers dozed away, lulled
to sleep by the warm, gentle breeze which was blowing."I don't wonder the natives are lazy," remarked Dick, when his
uncle aroused him."I rarely slept in the daytime at home, and
here I fell off without half trying.""The climate is very enervating, Dick.That is why this section
of the globe makes little or no progress toward civilization.Energetic men come here, with the best intention in the world of
hustling, as it is termed, but soon their ambition oozes out of
them like--well, like molasses out of a barrel lying on a hot
dock in the sun.he called out, and soon the party was on
its way again.The highway was still broad, but now it was not as even as before,
and here and there they had to leap over just such a treacherous
swamp as had caused Sam so much trouble."It's a good thing we
didn't bring the horses," said Mr."I didn't think so
before, but I do now."The jungle was filled with countless birds, of all sorts, sizes,
and colors.Some of these sang in a fairly tuneful fashion, but
the majority uttered only sounds which were as painful to the
hearing as they were tiresome."The sound is enough to drive a nervous fellow crazy," declared
Tom."It's a good thing nature fixed it so that a man can't grow
up nervous here.""Perhaps those outrageous cries are meant to wake a chap up,"
suggested Dick."I've a good mind to shoot some of the little pests.""You may take a few shots later on and see what you can bring down
for supper," answered his uncle."But just now let us push on as
fast as we can.""Remember we are out here to find father, not
to hunt.""As if I would ever forget that," answered Dick, with a
reproachful glance.They were now traveling a bit of a hill which took them, temporarily,
out of sight of the Congo.Cujo declared this was a short route
and much better to travel than the other.The way was through a
forest of African teak wood, immense trees which seemed to tower
to the very skies."They are as large as the immense trees of California of which you
have all heard," remarked Randolph Rover."It is a very useful
wood, used extensively in ship building.""After all, I think a boat on the Congo would have been better to
use than shoe leather," said Sam, who was beginning to grow tired."No use a boat when come to falls," grinned Cujo.Aleck had been dragging behind, carrying a heavy load, to which
he was unaccustomed.Now he rejoined the others with the
announcement that another party was in their rear."They are on foot, too," he said."Cujo whar you dun t'ink da be
gwine?""To the next settlement, maybe," was Randolph Rover's comment,
and Cujo nodded.They waited a bit for the other party to come up, but it did not,
and, after walking back, Cujo returned with the announcement that
they were nowhere in sight."Perhaps they turned off on a side road," said Tom, and there the
matter was dropped, to be brought to their notice very forcibly
that night.Evening found them at another hostelry, presided over by a
Frenchman who had a giant negress for a wife.The pair were a
crafty looking couple, and did not at all please the Rovers."Perhaps we may as well sleep with one eye open tonight," said
Randolph Rover, upon retiring."We are in a strange country, and
it's good advice to consider every man an enemy until he proves
himself a friend."The hostelry was divided into half a dozen rooms, all on the
ground floor.The Rovers were placed in two adjoining apartments,
while the natives and Aleck were quartered in an addition of
bamboo in the rear."Keep your eyes and ears open, Aleck," whispered Dick, on
separating from the faithful <DW52> man."And if you find
anything wrong let us know at once.""Do you suspect anyt'ing, Massah Rober?"Something in the air seems to tell me that
everything is not as it should be.""Dat Frenchman don't look like no angel, sah," and Aleck shook his
head doubtfully."You're right, Aleck, and his wife is a terror, or else I miss my
guess.""Dat's right, Massah Rober; nebber saw sech sharp eyes.Yes, I'll
look out-fo' my own sake as well as fo' de sake ob Ye and de
rest," concluded Aleck.CHAPTER XVII

THE ATTACK AT THE HOSTELRY


The night was exceptionally cool for that locality; and, utterly
worn out by their tiresome journey, all of the Rovers slept more
soundly than they had anticipated.Dick had scarcely dropped off when he heard a
noise at the doorway, which was covered with a rough grass
curtain."Dat's all right," came in a whisper from Aleck."Is dat yo',
Massah Dick?""I dun discovered somet'ing, sah.""Dat udder party dun come up an' is in de woods back ob dis,
house.""No; dare is a Frenchman wot is talkin' to dah chap wot runs dis
shebang, sah.""Perhaps he wants accommodations," mused Dick."Can't say about dat, sah.But de fellers who come up hab a lot
ob ropes wid 'em."came sleepily from Tom, and presently Randolph
Rover and Sam likewise awoke.In a few words the <DW52> man explained the situation.He had
just finished when the wife of the proprietor of the resort came
up to the doorway."The gentleman is wanted outside by my husband," she said in
broken French.But he says please to step out for a moment."Rover repeated the woman's words to the boys."I tell you something is wrong," declared Dick."But what can be wrong, my lad?""If you go outside I'll go with you, Uncle Randolph.""Well, you can do that if you wish."The pair arose and speedily slipped on the few garments which they
had taken off."Do you think it is as bad as that?"But I'm going to take uncle's advice
and count every man an enemy until he proves himself a friend."Rover and Dick were ready to go out, and they did so,
followed by Aleck and preceded by the native woman.As it was
dark the Rovers easily concealed their weapons in the bosoms of
their coats.They walked past the bamboo addition and to the grove of trees
Aleck had mentioned.There they found the Frenchman in
conversation with Captain Villaire."Very much," answered Villaire in French."And this is one of your nephews?""I believe you are hunting for the young man's father?""He is, then,
alive?""Yes; but a prisoner, and very sick.He heard of your being in
Boma by accident through a native of King Susko's tribe who was
sent to the town for some supplies.I heard the story and I have
been employed to lead you to him, and at once.""But--but this is marvelous," stammered Randolph Rover."I must
say I do not understand it.""It is a very queer turn of affairs, I admit.Rover
must explain to you when you meet.He wishes you to come to him
alone.As well as he was able Randolph Rover explained matters to Dick.In the meantime, however, the youth had been looking around
sharply and had noted several forms gliding back and forth in the
gloom under the trees."Uncle Randolph, I don't believe this man," he said briefly."The
story he tells is too unnatural.""I think so myself, Dick; but still--"

"Why didn't this man come straight to the house to tell us this?"Randolph Rover put the question to Captain Villaire.The
Frenchman scowled deeply and shrugged his shoulders."I had my
reason," he said briefly.Before Randolph Rover could answer there came a shout from behind
several trees.repeated Dick, when of a sudden a half dozen men rushed
at him and Randolph Rover and surrounded the pair.In a twinkle,
before either could use his pistol, he was hurled flat and made a
prisoner."Bind them, men," ordered Villaire sternly."And bind them well,
so that escape is impossible."yelled, out Dick, before those on top
of him could choke him off.And off he sped at top
speed, with three or four of Captain Villaire's party after him.Cujo also went to the house, bewildered by what was going on and
hardly knowing how to turn.Randolph Rover fought desperately and so did Dick.But the two
were no match for the six men who had attacked them, and ere they
knew it the Rovers were close prisoners, with their hands bound
behind them and each with a dirty gag of grass stuffed in his
mouth."Now march, or you will be shot," came in bad English from one of
the Villaire party.And as there seemed nothing better to do they
marched, wondering why they had been attacked and where they were
to be taken.Their arms had been confiscated, so further
resistance was useless.When Dick lagged behind he received a
cruel blow on the back which nearly sent him headlong.A journey of several hours brought the party to a small clearing
overlooking the Congo at a point where the bank was fully fifty
feet above the surface of the stream.Here, in years gone by, a
rough log hut had been built, which the African International
Association had once used as a fort during a war with the natives.The log hut was in a state of decay, but still fit for use and
almost hidden from view by the dense growth of vines which covered
it.The men who had brought Randolph Rover and Dick hither evidently
knew all about the hut, for they proceeded to make themselves at
home without delay.Taking the Rovers into one of the apartments
of the dilapidated building they tied each to the logs of the
walls, one several yards from the other."Now you must wait until Captain Villaire returns," said the
leader of the party in French."He will tell you what it means," grinned the brigand, and walked
away to another part of the hut, which was built in a long,
rambling fashion, and contained a dozen or more divisions."We are in a pickle," remarked Dick dismally."This is hunting
up father with a vengeance."But I would like to know what this
means.""It probably means robbery, for one thing, Uncle Randolph."If I am not mistaken I saw some of these rascals hanging around
the hotel in Boma."They have been watching their chance
to attack us ever since we left the town."Slowly the hours wore away until morning dawned.The positions of
both Dick and his uncle were most uncomfortable ones, and the
youth was ready to groan aloud at the strain put upon his
shoulders through having his arms tied behind him.At last they heard footsteps approaching from the opposite end of
the rambling building.He had scarcely spoken when Captain Villaire appeared, followed
by--Dan Baxter!CHAPTER XVIII

A DEMAND OF IMPORTANCE


Dick could scarcely believe the evidence of his own eyesight as he
gazed at the former bully of Putnam Hall and the Frenchman who
stood beside him."Well, that's a good one, I must
say."He is in with these rascals who have captured us," came quickly
from Dick."This is how you repay our kindness, Baxter?"Didn't I refuse your
offer, made just before you went away?""But you didn't refuse the first money we gave you, Baxter.""We won't talk about that, Dick
Rover.Do you realize that you are absolutely in my power?"It was not you who captured us, Baxter.""Well, it amounts to the same thing, eh, Capitan Villaire?"and
the big boy turned to the French brigand, who nodded."Ve will not speak of zem udders," broke in Captain Villaire."Did Baxter put up this plot against us?"To be sure I did," answered Baxter, who loved to brag just as
much as ever."And before I let you go I'm going to make you pay up dearly for
all that I have suffered.Captain Villaire, have you had them
searched?""Yees, Baxter, but za had not mooch monish wid zem.""Then they left it behind at Binoto's place," was the quick
answer."Now if those others aren't captured--"

"Hush, ve vill not speak of zat," put in the brigand hastily."Tell zeni what I haf tole you."Dan Baxter turned once more to the
prisoners."Do you know why you were brought here?""To be robbed, I presume," answered Randolph Rover."Or that and worse," said Dick significantly,

"I reckon I have a right to all of your money, Dick Rover.""I don't see how you make that out, Baxter.""Years ago your father robbed mine out of the rights to a rich
gold mine in the United States."I claim, and so did my father,
that the mine was ours."The mine was discovered by my fattier, and if
everything had gone right he would have had the income from it."What do you
intend to do with us?""We intend to make money out of you," was the answer, given with a
rude laugh."First you will have to answer a few questions.""Zat ees it," put in Captain Villaire."How mooch morlish you
bring wid you from America?""We didn't bring much," answered Randolph Rover, who began to
smell a mouse."You leave zat in Boma, wid ze bankers, eh?""But you haf von big lettair of credit, not so?""Yes, we have a letter of credit," answered Randolph Rover."But
that won't do you any good, nor the money at the banker's
neither.""Ve see about zat, monsieur.Proceed," and Captain Villaire waved
his hand toward Dan Baxter."This is the situation in a nutshell, to come right down to
business," said the former bully of Putnam Hall coolly."You are
our prisoners, and you can't get away, no matter how hard you try.Captain Villaire and his men, as well as myself, are in this
affair to make money.The question is, what is your liberty worth
to you?""So you intend to work such a game?""Well, I shan't pay you a cent.""Don't be a fool, Dick Rover."Well, I haven't any money, and that ends it."Then you will have to foot the bill," continued Dan Baxter,
turning to Randolph Rover."If you value your liberty you will pay us what we demand.""We demand twenty thousand dollars--ten thousand for the liberty
of each."This demand nearly took away Randolph Rover's breath.You are worth a good deal more than that, Mr.And
I am demanding only what is fair.""Perhaps you'll sing a different tune in a few, days--after your
stomachs get empty," responded Dan Baxter, with a malicious gleam
in his fishy eyes."So you mean to starve us into acceding to your
demands," said Dick."Baxter, I always did put you down as a
first-class rascal.If you keep, on, you'll be more of a one than
your father."In high rage the former bully of Putnam Hall strode forward and
without warning struck the defenseless Dick a heavy blow on the
cheek."That, for your impudence," he snarled."You keep a civil tongue
in your head.If you don't--"  He finished with a shake of his
fist."You had bettair make up your mind to pay ze monish," said Captain
Villaire, after a painful pause."It will be ze easiest way out
of ze situation for you.""Don't you pay a cent, Uncle Randolph," interrupted Dick quickly.Then Baxter hit him again, such a stinging blow that he almost
lost consciousness."He is tied up, otherwise you
would never have the courage to attack him.Baxter, have you no
spirit of fairness at all in your composition?""Don't preach--I won't listen to it!""You
have got to pay that money.If you don't--well, I don't believe
you'll ever reach America alive, that's all."With these words Dan Baxter withdrew, followed by Captain
Villaire.They value their lives too much to
refuse.Just wait until they have suffered the pangs of hunger
and thirst, and you'll see how they change their tune.""You are certain za have ze monish?"It will only be a question of waiting for
the money after they send for it.""Neither will I--if we are safe here.You don't think anybody
will follow us?""Not unless za find ze way up from ze rivair.Za cannot come here
by land, because of ze swamps," answered the Frenchman."And ze
way from ze rivair shall be well guarded from now on," he added.CHAPTER XIX

WHAT HAPPENED TO TOM AND SAM


Let us return to Tom and Sam, at the time they were left alone at
Binoto's hostelry."I wish we had gone with Dick and Uncle Randolph," said Tom, as he
slipped into his coat and shoes."I don't like this thing at
all.""Oh, don't get scared before you are hurt, Tom!""These people out here may be peculiar, but--"

Sam did not finish.A loud call from the woods had reached his
ears, and in alarm he too began to dress, at the same time
reaching for his pistol and the money belt which Randolph Rover
had left behind."I--I guess something is wrong," he went on, after a pause."If
we--"

"Tom!came from Aleck, and in a
second more the <DW64>, burst on their view."Come, if yo' is
dressed!"And
Aleck almost dragged the boy along.The Rover boys could readily surmise that Aleck would not act in
this highly excited manner unless there was good cause for it.Consequently, as Sam said afterward, "They didn't stand on the
order of their going, but just flew."Pell-mell out of the
hostelry they tumbled, and ran up the highway as rapidly as their
nimble limbs would permit.They heard several men coming after them, and heard the command
"Halt!"yelled after them in both French and bad English.But
they did not halt until a sudden tumble on Tom's part made the
others pause in dismay.groaned the fun-loving Rover, and tried to
stand up."We ain't got no time ter lose!"panted Aleck, who was almost
winded."If we stay here we'll be gobbled up--in no time, dat's
shuah!""Let us try to carry Tom," said Sam, and attempted to lift his
brother up."De trees--let us dun hide in, de trees!"went on the <DW64>,
struck by a certain idea.groaned Tom, and then shut his teeth hard
to keep himself from screaming with pain.Together they carried the suffering youth away from the highway to
where there was a thick jungle of trees and tropical vines.The
vines, made convenient ladders by which to get up into the trees,
and soon Sam and Aleck were up and pulling poor Tom after them."Now we must be still," said Aleck, when they were safe for the
time being."Hear dem a-conun' dis way."The three listened and soon made out the footsteps of the
approaching party."But, oh, Aleck, what does it all mean?""It means dat yo' uncle an' Dick am prisoners--took by a lot of
rascals under a tall, Frenchman.""Yes, but I don't understand--"

"No more do I, Massah Sam, but it war best to git out, dat's as
shuah as yo' is born," added the <DW52> man solemnly.Poor Torn was having a wretched time of it with his ankle, which
hurt as badly as ever and had begun to swell.As he steadied
himself on one of the limbs of the tree Sam removed his shoe,
which gave him a little relief.From a distance came a shouting, and they made out through the
trees the gleam of a torch.But soon the sounds died out and the
light disappeared."One thing is certain, I can't walk just yet," said Tom."When I
put my foot down it's like a thousand needles darting through my
leg.""Let us go below and hunt up some water," said Sam; and after
waiting a while longer they descended into the small brush.Aleck
soon found a pool not far distant, and to this they carried Tom,
and after all had had a drink, the swollen ankle was bathed, much
to the sufferer's relief.As soon as the sun was
up Aleck announced that he was going back to the hostelry to see
how the land lay."But don't expose yourself," said Tom."I am certain now that is
a regular robbers' resort, or worse."Aleck was gone the best part of three hours.When he returned he
was accompanied by Cujo.The latter announced that all of the
other natives had fled for parts unknown."The inn is deserted," announced Aleck.Even that <DW52> wife of
the proprietor is gone."And did you find any trace of Dick and my uncle?""We found out where dat struggle took place," answered, Aleck."And Cujo reckons as how he can follow de trail if we don't wait
too long to do it.""Must go soon," put in Cujo for himself."Maybe tomorrow come big storm--den track all washed away.""You can go on, but you'll have to
leave me behind.I couldn't walk a hundred yards for a barrel of
gold.""Oh, we can't think of leaving you behind!""I'll tell you wot--Ise dun carry him, at least fe a spell,"
said Aleck, and so it was arranged.Under the new order of things Cujo insisted on making a scouting
tour first, that he might strike the trail before carrying them
off on a circuitous route, thus tiring Aleck out before the real
tracking began.The African departed, to be gone the best Part of an hour.When
he came back there was a broad grin of satisfaction on his homely
features."Cujo got a chicken," he announced, producing the fowl."And here
am some werry good roots, too.Now va dinner befo' we start out."cried Pop, and began to start up a fire
without delay, while Cujo cleaned the fowl and mashed up the
roots, which, when baked on a hot stone, tasted very much like
sweet potatoes.The meal was enjoyed by all, even Tom eating his
full share in spite of his swollen ankle, which was now gradually
resuming its normal condition.Cujo had found the trail at a distance of an eighth of a mile
above the wayside hostelry."Him don't lead to de ribber dare,"
he said."But I dun think somet'ing of him."asked Tom, from his seat on Aleck's
back."I t'ink he go to de kolobo.""De kolobo old place on ribber-place where de white soldiers shoot
from big fort-house.""But would the authorities allow, them to go
there?""No soldiers dare now--leave kolobo years ago.Well, follow the trail as best you can--and we'll see
what we will see.""And let us get along just as fast as we can," added Sam.On they went through a forest that in spots was so thick they
could scarcely pass.The jungle contained every kind of tropical
growth, including ferns, which were beautiful beyond description,
and tiny vines so wiry that they cut like a knife."But I suppose it doesn't hold a
candle to what is beyond.""Werry bad further on," answered Cujo."See, here am de trail,"
and he pointed it out.Several miles were covered, when they came to a halt in order to
rest and to give Aleck a let up in carrying Tom.The youth now
declared his foot felt much better and hobbled along for some
distance by leaning on Sam's shoulder.Presently they were startled by hearing a cry from a distance.They listened intently, then Cujo held up his hand."Me go an' see about dat," he said."Keep out ob sight, all ob
you!"And he glided into the bushes with the skill and silence of
a snake.Another wait ensued, and Tom improved the time by again bathing
his foot in a pool which was discovered not far from where Cujo
had left them.The water seemed to do much good, and the youth
declared that by the morrow he reckoned he would be able to do a
fair amount of walking if they did not progress too rapidly."I declare they could burn wood night and day for a century and
never miss a stick.""I thought I heard some monkeys chattering a while ago," answered
Sam."I suppose the interior is alive with them.""I dun see a monkey lookin' at us now, from dat tree," observed
Aleck."See dem shinin' eyes back ob de leaves?"He pointed with
his long forefinger, and both, boys gazed in the direction.He started back and the others did the same.And they were none
too soon, for an instant later the leaves were thrust apart and a
serpent's form appeared, swaying slowly to and fro, as if
contemplating a drop upon their very heads!CHAPTER XX

THE FIGHT AT THE OLD FORT


For the instant after the serpent appeared nobody spoke or moved.The waving motion of the reptile was fascinating to the last
degree, as was also that beady stare from its glittering eyes.The stare was fixed upon poor Tom, and having retreated but a few
feet, he now stood as though rooted to the spot.Slowly the form
of the snake was lowered, until only the end of its tail kept it
up on the tree branch.Then the head and neck began to swing back
and forth, in a straight line with Tom's face.The horrible fascination held the poor, boy as by a spell, and he
could do nothing but look at those eyes, which seemed to bum
themselves upon his very brain.Closer and closer, and still
closer, they came to his face, until at last the reptile prepared
to strike.It was Sam's pistol that spoke up, at just the right
instant, and those beady eyes were ruined forever, and the wounded
head twisted in every direction, while the body of the serpent,
dropping from the tree, lashed and dashed hither and thither in
its agony.Then the spell was broken, and Tom let out such a yell
of terror as had never before issued from his lips.came a second shot from Sam's pistol.But the serpent was
moving around too rapidly for a good aim to be taken, and only the
tip of the tail was struck.Then, in a mad, blind fashion, the
snake coiled itself upon Aleck's foot, and began, with
lightning-like rapidity, to encircle the <DW52> man's body.shrieked Aleck, trying to pull the snake off with his
hands.or Ise a dead man, shuah!""Catch him by the neck, Aleck!"ejaculated Tom, and brought out
his own pistol.Watching his chance, he pulled the trigger twice,
sending both bullets straight through the reptile's body.Then
Sam fired again, and the mangled head fell to the ground.But dead or alive the body still encircled Aleck, and the
contraction threatened to cave in the <DW52> man's ribs.went Tom's pistol once more, and now the snake had
evidently had enough of it, for it uncoiled slowly and fell to the
ground in a heap, where it slowly shifted from one spot to another
until life was extinct.But neither the boys nor the <DW52> man
waited to see if it was really dead.Instead, they took to their
heels and kept on running until the locality was left a
considerable distance behind."That was a close shave," said Tom, as he dropped on the ground
and began to nurse his lame ankle once more.but that snake
was enough to give one the nightmare!""Don't say a word," groaned Aleck, who had actually turned pale."I vought shuah I was a goner, I did fo' a fac'!I don't want to
meet no mo' snakes!"The two boys reloaded their pistols with all rapidity, and this
was scarcely accomplished when they heard Cujo calling to them.When told of what had
happened he would not believe the tale until he had gone back to
look at the dead snake."Him big wonder um snake didn't kill
all of yo'!"He had located Captain
Villaire's party at the old fort, and said that several French
brigands were on guard, by the trail leading from the swamp and at
the cliff overlooking the river."I see white boy dare too," he added."Same boy wot yo' give
money to in Boma.""Can it be possible that he is
mixed up in this affair?""I can't understand it at all," returned Tom."But the question
is, now we have tracked the rascals, what is to be done next?"After a long talk it was resolved to get as close to the old fort
as possible.Cujo said they need not hurry, for it would be best
to wait until nightfall before making any demonstration against
their enemies.The African was very angry to think that the other
natives had deserted the party, but this anger availed them
nothing.Four o'clock in the afternoon found them on the edge of the swamp
and not far from the bank of the Congo.Beyond was the cliff,
overgrown in every part with rank vegetation, and the ever-present
vines, which hung down like so many ropes of green."If we want to get up the wall we won't want any scaling ladders,"
remarked Tom grimly."Oh, if only we knew that Dick and Uncle
Randolph were safe!""I'm going to find out pretty soon," replied Sam."I'll tell you
what I think.But I didn't dream of such a thing
being done down here although, I know it is done further north in
Africa among the Moors and Algerians."Cujo now went off on another scout and did not return until the
sun was setting."I can show you a way up de rocks," he said."We can get to the
walls of um fort, as you call um, without being seen."Soon night was upon them, for in the tropics there is rarely any
twilight.Tom now declared himself able to walk once more, and
they moved off silently, like so many shadows, beside the swamp
and then over a fallen palm to where a series of rocks, led up to
the cliff proper.They came to a halt, and through the gloom saw a solitary figure
sitting on a rock.The sentinel held a gun over his knees and was
smoking a cigarette."If he sees us he will give the alarm," whispered Tom."Can't we
capture him without making a noise?""Dat's de talk," returned Aleck."Cujo, let us dun try dat
trick.""Urn boys stay here," he said.And off he crawled through the wet grass, taking a circuitous
route which brought him up on the sentinel's left.As he did so Cujo leaped
from the grass and threw him to the earth.Then a long knife
flashed in the air."No speak, or um diet" came softly; but, the
Frenchman realized that the African meant what he said.he growled, in the language of the African.Cujo let out a low whistle, which the others rightly guessed was a
signal for them to come up.Finding himself surrounded, the
Frenchman gave up his gun and other weapons without a struggle.He could talk no English, so what followed had to be translated by
Cujo."Yes, de man an' boy are dare," explained Cujo, pointing to the
fort."Da chained up, so dis rascal say.De captain ob de band
want heap money to let um go.""Ask him how many of the band there are," asked Sam.But at this question the Frenchman shook his head.Either he did
not know or would not tell.After a consultation the rascal was made to march back to safer
ground.Then he was strapped to a tree and gagged.The straps
were not fastened very tightly, so that the man was sure to gain
his liberty sooner or later."If we didn't come back and he was
too tight he might starve to death," said Tom."Not but wot he deserves to starve," said Aleck, with a scowl at
the crestfallen prisoner.At the foot of the cliff all was as dark and silent as a tomb."We go slow now, or maybe take a big tumble," cautioned Cujo."Perhaps him better if me climb up first," and he began the
dangerous ascent of the cliff by means of the numerous vines
already mentioned.He was halfway up when the others started after him, Sam first,
Tom next, and Aleck bringing up in the rear.Slowly they arose until the surface of the stream was a score or
more of feet below them.Then came the sounds of footsteps from
above and suddenly a torch shone down into their upturned faces.came in English and the Rover boys recognized
Dan Baxter."How came you--"

"Silence, Baxter!I have a pistol and you know I am a good shot.Stand where you an and put both hands over your head."yelled the bully, and flung his torch
straight at Tom.Then he turned and ran for the fort, giving the
alarm at the top of his lungs.The torch struck Tom on the neck, and for the moment the youth was
in danger of losing his hold on the vines and tumbling to the
jagged rocks below.But then the torch slipped away, past Sam and
Aleck, and went hissing into the dark waters of the Congo.By this time Cujo had reached the top of the cliff and was making
after Baxter.Both gained the end of the fort at the same time and
one mighty blow from Cujo's club laid Baxter senseless near the
doorway.The cry came in Dick's voice, and was plainly
heard by Sam and Tom.Then Captain Villaire appeared, and a rough
and tumble battle ensued, which the Rovers well remember to this
day.But Tom was equal to the occasion, and after the first onslaught
he turned, as if summoning help from the cliff."Tell the company to come up here and the other company
can surround the swamp!"Several pistol shots rang out, and the boys saw a Frenchman go
down with a broken arm.Then Captain Villaire shouted: "We have
been betrayed--we must flee!"The cry came in French, and as if
by magic the brigands disappeared into the woods behind the old
fort; and victory was upon the side of our friends.CHAPTER XXI

INTO THE HEART OF AFRICA


"Well, I sincerely trust we have no more such adventures."He was seated on an old bench in
one of the rooms of the fort, binding up a finger which had been
bruised in the fray.It was two hours later, and the fight had
come to an end some time previous.Nobody was seriously hurt,
although Sam, Dick, and Aleck were suffering from several small
wounds.Aleck had had his ear clipped by a bullet from Captain
Villaire's pistol and was thankful that he had not been killed.Baxter, the picture of misery, was a prisoner.The bully's face
was much swollen and one eye was in deep mourning.He sat huddled
up in a heap in a corner and wondering what punishment would be
dealt out to him."I suppose they'll kill me," he groaned, and it
may be added that he thought he almost deserved that fate."You came just in time," said Dick."Captain Villaire was about
to torture us into writing letters home asking for the money he
wanted as a ransom.Baxter put it into his head that we were very
rich.""Oh, please don't say anything more about it!""I--that Frenchman put up this job all on
his own hook.""I don't believe it," came promptly from Randolph Rover."You met
him, at Boma; you cannot deny it.""So I did; but he didn't say he was going to capture you, and I--"

"We don't care to listen to your falsehoods, Baxter," interrupted
Dick sternly.Cujo had gone off to watch Captain Villaire and his party.He now
came back, bringing word that the brigand had taken a fallen tree
and put out on the Congo and was drifting down the stream along
with several of his companions in crime."Him won't come back," said the tall African."Him had enough of
urn fight."Nevertheless the whole party remained on guard until morning,
their weapons ready for instant use.But no alarm came, and when
day, dawned they soon made sure that they had the entire locality
around the old fort to themselves, the Frenchman with a broken arm
having managed to crawl off and reach his friends.What to do with Dan Baxter was a conundrum."We can't take him with us, and if we leave him behind he will
only be up to more evil," said Dick."We ought to turn him over
to the British authorities.""No, no, don't do that," pleaded the tall youth."Let me go and
I'll promise never to interfere with you again.""Your promises are not worth the breath used in uttering them,"
replied Tom."Baxter, a worse rascal than you could not be
imagined.Why don't you try to turn over a new leaf?""I will--if you'll only give me one more chance," pleaded the
former bully of Putnam Hall.The matter was discussed in private and it was at last decided to
let Baxter go, providing he would, promise to return straight to
the coast."And remember," said Dick, "if we catch you following us again we
will shoot you on sight.""I won't follow--don't be alarmed," was the low answer, and then
Baxter was released and conducted to the road running down to
Boma.He was given the knife he had carried, but the Rovers kept
his pistol, that he might not be able to take a long-range shot at
them.Soon he was out of their sight, not to turn up again for a
long while to come.It was not until the heat of the day had been spent that the
expedition resumed its journey, after, an excellent meal made from
the supplies Captain Villaire's party had left behind in their
hurried flight.Some of the remaining supplies were done up into
bundles by Cujo, to replace those which had been lost when the
natives hired by Randolph Rover had deserted."It's queer we didn't see anything of that man and woman from the
inn," remarked Dick, as they set off."I reckon they got scared
at the very start."They journeyed until long after nightfall, "To make up for lost
time," as Mr.Rover expressed it, and so steadily did Cujo push on
that when a halt was called the boys were glad enough to rest.They had reached a native village called Rowimu.Here Cujo was
well known and he readily procured good accommodations for all
hands.The next week passed without special incident, excepting that one
afternoon the whole party went hunting, bringing down a large
quantity of birds, and several small animals, including an
antelope, which to the boys looked like a Maine deer excepting for
the peculiar formation of its horns.said Tom, when they were
returning to camp from the hunt."Oh, I reckon he is blasting away at game," laughed Sam, and Tom
at once groaned over the attempted joke."Perhaps we will meet him some day--if he's in this territory,"
put in Dick."But just now I am looking for nobody but father.""And so are all of us," said Tom and Sam promptly.They were getting deeper and deeper into the jungle and had to
take good care that they did not become separated.Yet Cujo said
he understood the way perfectly and often proved his words by
mentioning something which they would soon reach, a stream, a
little lake, or a series of rocks with a tiny waterfall."Been ober dis ground many times," said the guide."I suppose this is the ground Stanley covered in his famous
expedition along the Congo," remarked Dick, as they journeyed
along."But who really discovered the country, Uncle Randolph?""That is a difficult question to answer, Dick.The Portuguese,
the Spanish, and the French all claim that honor, along with the
English.I fancy different sections, were discovered by different
nationalities.This Free State, you know, is controlled by half a
dozen nations.""I wonder if the country will ever be thoroughly civilized?""It will take a long while, I am afraid.Many of the tribes in Africa are, you must
remember, without any form of religion whatever, being even worse
than what we call heathens, who worship some sort of a God."And their morality is of the lowest grade in
consequence.They murder and steal whenever the chance offers,
and when they think the little children too much care for them
they pitch them into the rivers for the crocodiles to feed upon.""Well, I reckon at that rate,
civilization can't come too quick, even if it has to advance
behind bayonets and cannon."CHAPTER XXII

A HURRICANE IN THE JUNGLE


On and on went the expedition.In the past many small towns and
villages had been visited where there were more or less white
people; but now they reached a territory where the blacks held
full sway, with--but this was rarely--a Christian missionary
among them.At all of the places which were visited Cujo inquired about King
Susko and his people, and at last learned that the African had
passed to the southeast along the Kassai River, driving before him
several hundred head of cattle which he had picked up here and
there."Him steal dat cattle," explained Cujo, "but him don't say dat
stealin', him say um--um--"

"A tax on the people?""He must be, unless he gives the people some benefit for the tax
they are forced to pay," said Tom.At one of the villages they leaned that there was another
American Party in that territory, one sent out by an Eastern
college to collect specimens of the flora of central Africa.It
was said that the party consisted of an elderly man and half a
dozen young fellows."I wouldn't mind meeting that crowd," said Sam."They might
brighten up things a bit.""Never mind; things will pick up when once we meet King Susko,"
said Dick."But I would like to know where the crowd is from and
who is in it.""It's not likely we would know them if they are from the East,"
said Sam.Two days later the storm which Cujo had predicted for some time
caught them while they were in the midst of an immense forest of
teak and rosewood.It was the middle of the afternoon, yet the
sky became as black as night, while from a distance came the low
rumble of thunder.There was a wind rushing high up in the air,
but as yet this had not come down any further than the treetops.The birds of the jungle took up the alarm and filled the forest
with their discordant cries, and even the monkeys, which were now
numerous, sit up a jabber which would have been highly trying to
the nerves of a nervous person."Yes, we catch um," said Cujo, in reply to Dick's question."Me
look for safe place too stay.""You think the storm will be a heavy one?""Werry heavy, massah; werry heavy," returned Cujo."Come wid me,
all ob you,"  and he set off on a run.All followed as quickly as they could, and soon found themselves
under a high mass of rocks overlooking the Kassai River.They had
hardly gained the shelter when the storm burst over their heads in
all of its wild fury."My, but this beats anything that I ever saw before!"cried Sam,
as the wind began to rush by them with ever-increasing velocity."Him blow big by-me-by," said Cujo with a sober face."The air was full of a moanin' sound," to use Aleck's way of
expressing it.It came from a great distance and caused the
monkeys and birds to set up more of a noise than ever.The trees
were now swaying violently, and presently from a distance came a
crack like that of a big pistol.asked Randolph Rover, and Cujo
nodded."It is a good thing, then, that we got out of the
forest.""Big woods werry dangerous in heap storm like dis," answered the
African.He crouched down between two of the largest rocks and instinctively
the others followed suit.The "moanin" increased until, with a
roar and a rush, a regular tropical hurricane was upon them.The blackness of the atmosphere was filled with flying tree
branches and scattered vines, while the birds, large and small,
swept past like chips on a swiftly flowing river, powerless to
save themselves in those fierce gusts.shouted Randolph Rover; but the roar
of the elements drowned out his voice completely.However, nobody
thought of rising, and the tree limbs and vines passed harmlessly
over their heads.The first rush of wind over, the rain began, to fall, at first in
drops as big as a quarter-dollar and then in a deluge which
speedily converted the hollows among the rocks into deep pools and
soaked everybody to his very skin.Soon the water was up to their
knees and pouring down into the river like a regular cataract."This is a soaker and no mistake," said Sam, during a brief lull
in the downpour."Why, I never saw so much water come down in my
life.""It's a hurricane," answered Randolph Rover, "It may keep on--"

He got no further, for at that instant a blinding flash of
lightning caused everybody to jump in alarm.Then came an
ear-splitting crack of thunder and up the river they saw a
magnificent baobab tree, which had reared its stately head over a
hundred feet high from the ground, come crashing down, split in
twain as by a Titan's ax.The blackened stump was left standing,
and soon--this burst into flames, to blaze away until another
downpour of rain put out the conflagration.murmured Aleck with a shiver."Ise
glad we didn't take no shelter under dat tree."He had been on the point of making some joke
about the storm, but now the fun was knocked completely out of
him.It rained for the rest of the day and all of the night, and for
once all hands felt thoroughly, miserable.Several times they
essayed to start a fire, by which to dry themselves and make
something hot to drink, but each time the rain put out the blaze.What they had to eat was not only cold, but more or less
water-soaked, and it was not until the next noon that they managed to
cook a meal.When at last the sun did come out, however, it shone, so Sam put
it, "with a vengeance."There was not a cloud left, and the
direct rays of the great orb of day caused a rapid evaporation of
the rain, so that the ground seemed to be covered with a sort of
mist.On every side could be seen the effects of the hurricane-broken
trees, washed-out places along the river, and dead birds
and small animals, including countless monkeys.The monkeys made
the boys' hearts ache, especially one big female, that was found
tightly clasping two little baby monkeys to her breast.The storm had swollen the river to such an extent that they were
forced to leave the beaten track Cujo had been pursuing and take
to another trail which reached out to the southward.Here they
passed a small village occupied entirely by <DW64>s, and Cujo
learned from them that King Susko had passed that way but five
days before.He had had no cattle with him, the majority of his
followers having taken another route.It was thought by some of
the natives that King Susko was bound for a mountain known as the
Hakiwaupi--or Ghost-of-Gold."Can that be the mountain
father was searching for when he came to Africa?"Inquiries from Cujo elicited the information that the mountain
mentioned was located about one hundred miles away, in the center
of an immense plain.It was said to be full of gold, but likewise
haunted by the ghost of a departed warrior known to the natives as
Gnu-ho-mumoli--Man-of-the-Gnu-eye."I reckon that ghost story, was started, by somebody who wanted,
to keep the wealth of che mountain to himself," observed Tom."I
don't believe in ghosts, do you, Cujo?"The tall African shrugged his ebony shoulders, "Maybe no ghost--but
if dare is, no want to see 'um," he said laconically.Nevertheless he did not object to leading them in the direction of
the supposedly haunted mountain.So far the natives had been more or less friendly, but now those
that were met said but little to Cujo, while scowls at the whites
were frequent.It was learned that the college party from the
East was in the vicinity."Perhaps they did something to offend the natives," observed
Randolph Rover."As you can see, they are simple and childlike in
their ways, and as quickly offended on one hand as they are
pleased on the other.All of you must be careful in your
treatment of them, otherwise we may get into serious trouble."CHAPTER XXIII

DICK MEETS AN OLD ENEMY


One afternoon Dick found himself alone near the edge of a tiny
lake situated on the southern border of the jungle through which
the party had passed.The others had gone up the lake shore,
leaving him to see what he could catch for supper.He had just hooked a magnificent fish of a reddish-brown color,
when, on looking up, he espied an elderly man gazing at him
intently from a knoll of water-grass a short distance away."Richard Rover, is it--ahem--possible?"came slowly from the
man's thin lips.ejaculated Dick, so surprised that he let the
fish fall into the water again."How on earth did you get out
here?""I presume I might--er--ask that same question," returned the
former teacher of Putnam Hall."Do you imagine I would be fool enough to do that, Mr.No, the Stanhopes and I were content to let you go--so long as
you minded your own business in the future.""Do not grow saucy, boy; I will not stand it.""I am not saucy, as you see fit to term it, Josiah Crabtree.You
know as well as I do that you ought to be in prison this minute
for plotting the abduction of Dora.""I know nothing of the kind, and will not waste words on you.But
if you did not follow me why are you here?""I am here on business, and not ashamed to own it."And you--did you come in search of your missing
father?"It is a long journey for one so
young.""It's a queer place for you to come to.""I am with an exploring party from Yale College.We are studying
the fauna and flora of central Africa--at least, they are doing
so under my guidance.""They must be learning a heap--under you.""Do you mean to say I am not capable of teaching them!"cried
Josiah Crabtree, wrathfully."Well, if I was in their place I would want somebody else besides
the man who was discharged by Captain Putnam and who failed to get
the appointment he wanted at Columbia College because he could not
stand the examination."fumed Crabtree,
coming closer and shaking, his fist in Dick's face."Well, I know something of your lack of ability.""You are doing your best to insult me!""Such an old fraud as you cannot be insulted, Josiah Crabtree.I
read your real character the first time I met you, and you have
never done anything since which has caused me to alter my opinion
of you.You have a small smattering of learning and you can put
on a very wise look when occasion requires.But that is all there
is to it, except that behind it all you are a thorough-paced
scoundrel and only lack a certain courage to do some daring bit of
rascality."This statement of plain truths fairly set Josiah Crabtree to
boiling with rage.He shook his fist in Dick's face again."Don't
dare to talk that way, Rover; don't dare--or--I'll--I'll--"

"What will you do?""Never mind; I'll show you when the proper time comes.""I told you once before that I was not afraid of you--and I am
not afraid of you now.""You did not come to Africa alone, did you?"I tell you that--and it's the
truth--so that you won't try any underhand game on me.""You--you--"  Josiah Crabtree broke off and suddenly grew
nervous."See here, Rover, let us be friends," he said abruptly."Let us drop the past and be friends-at least, so long as we are
so far away from home and in the country of the enemy."Certainly the man's manner would indicate as much."Well, I'm willing to let past matters, drop--just for the
present," he answered, hardly knowing what to say."I wish to pay
all my attention to finding my father.""Exactly, Richard--and--er--you--who is with you?And that black, how is it he came along?""They are a set of rich young students from Yale in their senior
year who engaged me to bring them hither for study
and--er--recreation.You will
not--ahem--say anything about the past to them, will you?"CHAPTER XXIV

JOSIAH CRABTREE MAKES A MOVE


As quick as a flash of lightning Dick saw through Josiah Crabtree's
scheme for, letting matters Of the past drop.The former teacher
of Putnam Hall was afraid the youth would hunt up the college
students from Yale and expose him to them.As a matter of fact, Crabtree was already "on the outs" with two
of the students, and he was afraid that if the truth regarding his
character became known his present position would be lost to him
and he would be cast off to shift for himself."You don't want me to speak to the students under your charge?""Oh, of course you can speak to them, if you wish.But I--ahem--I
would not care to--er--er--"

"To let them know what a rascal you are," finished Dick."Crabtree, let me tell you once for all, that you can expect no
friendship, from me.When I meet those
students I will tell them whatever I see fit."At these words Josiah Crabtree grew as white as a sheet.Then,
setting his teeth, he suddenly recovered.As was perfectly natural, Dick turned to gaze in the direction.As he did so, Crabtree swung a stick that he carried into the air
and brought it down with all force on the youth's head.Dick felt
a terrific pain, saw a million or more dancing lights flash
through his brain--and then he knew no more."I guess I've fixed him," muttered the former teacher of Putnam
Hall grimly.He knelt beside the fallen boy and felt of his
heart."Not dead, but pretty well knocked out.Now what had I
best do with him?"He thought for a moment, then remembered a deep hollow which he
had encountered but a short while before.Gazing around, to make
certain that nobody was watching him, he picked up the unconscious
lad and stalked off with the form, back into the jungle and up a
small hill.At the top there was a split between the rocks and dirt, and into
this he dropped poor Dick, a distance of twenty or more feet.Then he threw down some loose leaves and dead tree branches."Now I reckon I am getting square with those Rovers," he muttered,
as he hurried away.The others of the Rover party wondered why Dick did not join them
when they gathered around the camp-fire that night."He must be done fishing by this time," said Tom."I wonder if
anything has happened to him?""Let us take a walk up de lake an' see," put in Aleck, and the
pair started off without delay.They soon found the spot where Dick had been fishing.His rod and
line lay on the bank, just as he had dropped it upon Josiah
Crabtree's approach.Then, to Tom's astonishment, a
strange voice answered from the woods: "Here I am!"Dat aint Dick," muttered Aleck."Dat's sumbuddy else, Massah
Tom.""So it is," replied Tom, and presently saw a tall and well-built
young man struggling forth from the tall grass of the jungle.demanded the newcomer, as he stalked toward
them."I guess I can ask the same question," laughed Tom."Are you the
Dick who just answered me?"I am looking for my brother Dick, who was fishing
here a while ago.Are you one of that party of college students we
have heard about?""Yes, I'm a college student from Yale."We can't imagine what
has become of my brother Dick," he went on."Perhaps a lion ate him up," answered the Yale student."No, you
needn't smile.He used to be a teacher at the
academy I and my brothers attend."I have thought so
all along, but the others, would hardly believe it.""I am telling the truth, and can prove all I say.But just now I
am anxious about my brother.Crabtree was scared to
death and ran away.Frank Rand and I took shots at the beast, but
I can't say if we hit him.""It would be too bad if Dick dunh fell into dat lion's clutches,"
put in Aleck."I reckon de lion would chaw him up in no time.""Go back and call Cujo," said Tom."He may be able to track my
brother's footsteps."While he was gone Tom told Dick Chester
much concerning himself, and the college student related several
facts in connection with the party to which he belonged."There are six of us students," he said."We were going to have a
professor from Yale with us, but he got sick at the last moment
and we hired Josiah Crabtree.I wish we hadn't done it now, for
he has proved more of a hindrance than a help, and his real
knowledge of fauna and flora could be put in a peanut shell, with
room to spare.""He's a big brag," answered Tom."Take my advice and never trust
him too far--or you may be sorry for it."Presently Aleck came back, with Cujo following.The brawny
African began at once to examine the footprints along the lake
shore.Udder footprints walk away, but not um Massah Dick."Do you think he--fell into the lake?""Perhaps, Massah Tom--or maybe he get into boat.""I don't know of any boats around here--do
you?""No," returned the young man from Yale."But the natives living
in the vicinity may have them.""Perhaps a native dun carry him off," said Aleck."He must be
sumwhar, dat am certain.""Yes, he must be somewhere," repeated Tom sadly.By this time Sam and Randolph Rover were coming up, and also one
of Dick Chester's friends.The college students were introduced
to the others by Tom, and then a general hunt began for Dick,
which lasted until the shades of night had fallen.But poor Dick
was not found, and all wondered greatly what had, become of him.Tom and the others retired at ten o'clock.But not to sleep, for
with Dick missing none of the Rovers could close an eye."We must
find him in the morning," said Sam.CHAPTER XXV

DICK AND THE LION


When poor Dick came to his senses he was lying in a heap on the
decayed leaves at the bottom of the hollow between the rocks.The
stuff Josiah Crabtree had thrown down still lay on top, of him,
and it was a wonder that he had not been smothered.was the first thought which crossed his
confused mind.He tried to sit up, but found this impossible
until he had scattered the dead leaves and tree branches.Even
then he was so bewildered that he hardly knew what to do,
excepting to stare around at his strange surroundings.Slowly the
truth dawned upon him--how Josiah Crabtree had struck him down
on the lake shore."He must have brought me here," he murmured.Although Dick did not know it, he had been at the bottom of the
hollow all evening and all night.The sun was now up once more,
but it was a day later than he imagined.The hollow was damp and full of ants and other insects, and as
soon as he felt able the youth got up.There was a big lump
behind his left ear where the stick had descended, and this hurt
not a little."I'll get square with him some day," he muttered, as he tried to
crawl out of the hollow."He has more courage to play the villain
than I gave him credit for.Sometime I'll face him again, and
then things will be different."It was no easy matter to get out of the hollow.The sides were
steep and slippery, and four times poor Dick tried, only to slip
back to the bottom.He was about to try a fifth time, when a
sound broke upon his ears which caused him great alarm.From only
a short distance away came the muffled roar of a lion.Dick had never heard, this sound out in the open before, but he
had heard it a number of times at the circus and at the menagerie
in Central Park, New York, and he recognized the roar only too
well.I trust he isn't coming this
way!"But he was coming that way, as Dick soon discovered.A few
seconds of silence were followed by another roar which to, the
alarmed youth appeared to come from almost over his head.Then
came a low whine, which was kept up for fully a minute, followed
by another roar.Dick hardly knew what was best--to remain at
the bottom of the hollow or try to escape to some tree at the top
of the opening."If I go up now he may nab me on sight," he
thought dismally."Oh, if only I had my--thank Heaven, I have!"Dick had felt for his pistol before, to find it gone.But now he
spotted the glint of the shiny barrel among the leaves.The
weapon had fallen from his person at the time Crabtree had pitched
him into the hollow.He reached for it, and to his joy found that
it was fully loaded and ready for use.Presently he heard the bushes overhead thrust aside, and then came
a half roar, half whine that made him jump.Looking up, he saw a
lion standing on the edge of the hollow facing him.The monarch of the forest was holding one of his forepaws up and
now he sat down on his haunches to lick the limb.Then he set up
another whine and shook the limb painfully."He has hurt that paw," thought Dick.Yes, he did see, just at that instant, and started back in
astonishment.Then his face took on a fierce look and he gave a
roar which could be heard for miles around.It was the report of Dick's pistol, but the youth was
nervous, and the bullet merely glanced along the lion's body,
doing little or no damage.The beast roared again, then crouched
down and prepared to leap upon the youth.But the wounded forepaw was a hindrance to the lion's movements,
and he began to crawl along the hollow's edge, seeking a better
point from which to make a leap.Then Dick's pistol spoke up a second time.This shot was a far better one, and the bullet passed directly
through the knee-joint of the lion's left forepaw.He was now
wounded in both fore limbs, and set up a roar which seemed to
fairly make the jungle tremble.Twice he started to leap down
into the hollow, but each time retreated to shake one wounded limb
after another into the air with whines of pain and distress.As soon as the great beast reappeared once more Dick continued his
firing.Soon his pistol was empty, but the lion had not been hit
again.In nervous haste the lad started to re-load only to find
that his cartridge box was empty.he yelled at the lion, and threw a stone at the beast.But the lion was now determined to descend into the hollow, and
paused only to calculate a sure leap to the boy's head.But that pause, brief as it was, was fatal to the calculations of
the monarch of the jungle.From his rear came two shots in rapid
succession, each hitting him in a vulnerable portion of his body.He leaped up into the air, rolled over on the edge of the hollow,
and then came down, head first, just grazing Dick's arm, and
landing at the boy's feet, stone dead."And so did I," came from Randolph Rover.cried Dick, with all the strength he could
command.He was shaking like a reed in the wind and all of the
color had deserted his face."I told you that I had heard several
pistol shots."Rover presented themselves at the top of the
hollow, followed by Aleck and Cujo.The latter procured a rope
made of twisted vines, and by this Dick was raised up without much
difficulty.CHAPTER XXVI

THE LAST OF JOSIAH CRABTREE


All listened intently to the story Dick had to tell, and he had
not yet finished when Dick Chester presented himself, having been
attracted to the vicinity by the roars of the lion and the various
pistol and gun shots."This Crabtree must certainly be as bad as you represent," he
said."I will have a talk with him when I get back to our camp.""It won't be necessary for you to talk to him," answered Dick
grimly."If you'll allow me, I'll do the talking."Chester and Cujo descended into the hollow to examine the lion.There was a bullet in his right foreleg which Chester proved had
come from his rifle."He must be the beast Frank Rand and I fired
at from across the lake.Probably he had his home in the hollow
and limped over to it during the night.""In that case you are entitled to your fair share of the meat--if
you wish any," said Randolph Rover with a smile."But I think
the pelt goes to Tom, for he fired the shot that was really
fatal."And that skin did go to Tom, and lies on his parlor floor
at home today."Several of the students from Yale had been out on a long tour the
afternoon before, in the direction, of the mountain, and they had
reported meeting several natives who had seen King Susko.He was
reported to have but half a dozen of his tribe with him, including
a fellow known as Poison Eye."That's a bad enough title for anybody," said Sam with a shudder."I suppose his job is to poison their enemies if they can't
overcome them in regular battle.""Um tell de thruf," put in Cujo."Once de Mimi tribe fight King
Susko, and whip him.Den Susko send Poison Eye to de Mimi camp.Next day all drink-water get bad, an' men, women, an' children die
off like um flies.""And why didn't they slay the poisoner?""Eberybody 'fraid to touch him--'fraid he be poisoned.""I'd run my chances--providing I had a knife or a club,"
muttered Tom."Such rascals are not fit to live."Dick, as can readily be imagined, was hungry, and before the party
started back for the lake, the youth was provided with some food
which Aleck had very thoughtfully carried with him.It was learned that the two parties were encamped not far apart,
and Dick Chester said he would bring his friends to, see them
before