“Looked like a ball of fire.”

“It may be the cat!” suggested Jimmie.“Quit your foolishness!” advised Carl impatiently.“This is a serious
situation, and there’s no time for any grandstanding!”

“A ball of fire!” repeated Jimmie scornfully.“What would a ball of fire
be doing there?”

“What would a blue ball of fire be doing on the roof?” asked Carl,
reprovingly.“Yet we saw one there, didn’t we?”

Although Jimmie was inclined to treat the situation as lightly as
possible, he knew very well that the peril was considerable.Like a good
many other boys in a trying situation, he was usually inclined to keep
his unpleasant mental processes to himself.John went back to the garden.He now engaged in what
seemed to Carl to be trivial conversation, yet the desperate situation
was no less firmly impressed upon his mind.The boys waited for some moments before speaking again, listening and
watching for the reappearance of the object which had attracted their
attention.“There!” Carl cried in a moment.“Move your light a little to the left.I’m sure I saw a flash of color pass the opening.”

“I saw that too!” Jimmie agreed.“Now what do you think it can be?”

In a moment there was no longer doubt regarding the presence at the
opening which was being watched so closely.The deep vocal vibrations
which had been noticed from the other chamber seemed to shake the very
wall against which the boy stood.As before, it was followed in a moment
by the piercing, lifting cry which on the first occasion had suggested
the appeal of a woman in agony or terror.The boys stood motionless, grasping each other by the hand, and so each
seeking the sympathy and support of the other, until the weird sound
died out.“And that,” said Jimmie in a moment, “is no ghost!”

“Ghost?” repeated Carl scornfully.“You may as well talk about a ghost
making that gate and setting it against us!”

“Anyway,” Jimmie replied, “the wail left an odor of sulphur in the air!”

“Yes,” answered Carl, “and the sulphur you speak of is a sulphur which
comes from the dens of wild beasts!Now do you know what we’re up
against?”

“Mountain lions!” exclaimed Jimmie.“Jaguars!” answered Carl.“I hope they’re locked in!” suggested Jimmie.“Can you see anything that looks like a grate before that opening?”
asked Carl.“I’m sure I can’t.”

“Nothing doing in that direction!” was the reply.At regular intervals, now, a great, lithe, crouching body could be seen
moving back and forth at the opening, and now and then a cat-like head
was pushed into the room!At such times the eyes of the animal, whatever
it was, shone like balls of red fire in the reflection of the electric
light.Although naturally resourceful and courageous, the two boys
actually abandoned hope of ever getting out of the place alive!“I wonder how many wild animals there are in there?” asked Carl in a
moment.“It seems to me that I have seen two separate figures.”

“There may be a dozen for all we know,” Jimmie returned.“Gee!” he
exclaimed, reverting to his habit of concealing serious thoughts by
lightly spoken words, “Daniel in the lion’s den had nothing on us!”

“How many shots have you in your automatic?” asked Carl, drawing his own
from his pocket.“We’ll have to do some shooting, probably.”

“Why, I have a full clip of cartridges,” Jimmie answered.“But have you?” insisted Carl.“Why, surely, I have!” returned Jimmie.“Don’t you remember we filled
our guns night before last and never——”

“I thought so!” exclaimed Carl, ruefully.“We put in fresh clips night
before last, and exploded eight or nine cartridges apiece on the return
trip to Quito.Now, how many bullets do you think you have available?One or two?”

“I don’t know!” replied Jimmie, and there was almost a sob in his voice
as he spoke.“I presume I have only one.”

“Perhaps the electric light may keep the brutes away,” said Carl
hopefully.“You know wild animals are afraid of fire.”

“Yes, it may,” replied Jimmie, “but it strikes me that our little
torches will soon become insufficient protectors.Those are jaguars out
there, I suppose you know.And they creep up to camp-fires and steal
savage children almost out of their mothers’ arms!”

“Where do you suppose Sam is by this time?” asked Carl, in a moment, as
the cat-like head appeared for the fourth or fifth time at the opening.“I’m afraid Sam couldn’t get in here in time to do us any good even if
he stood in the corridor outside!” was the reply.“Whatever is done,
we’ve got to do ourselves.”

“And that brings us down to a case of shooting!” Carl declared.“It’s only a question of time,” Jimmie went on, “when the jaguars will
become hungry enough to attack us.When they get into the opening, full
under the light of the electric, we’ll shoot.”

“I’ll hold the light,” Carl argued, “and you do the shooting.You’re a
better marksman than I am, you know!When your last cartridge is gone,
I’ll hand you my gun and you can empty that.If there’s only two animals
and you are lucky with your aim, we may escape with our lives so far as
this one danger is concerned.How we are to make our escape after that
is another matter.”

“If there are more than two jaguars,” Jimmie answered, “or if I’m
unlucky enough to injure one without inflicting a fatal wound, it will
be good-bye to the good old flying machines.”

“That’s about the size of it!” Carl agreed.All this conversation had occurred, of course, at intervals, whenever
the boys found the heart to put their hopes and plans into words.It
seemed to them that they had already spent hours in the desperate
situation in which they found themselves.The periods of silence,
however, had been briefer than they thought, and the time between the
departure of Sam and that moment was not much more than half an hour.“There are two heads now!” Jimmie said, after a time, “and they’re
coming out!Hold your light steady when they reach the center of the
room.I can’t afford to miss my aim.”

“Is your arm steady?” almost whispered Carl.“Never better!” answered Jimmie.Four powerful, hungry, jaguars, instead of two, crept out of the
opening!Jimmie tried to cheer his companion with the whispered hope
that there might possibly be bullets enough for them all, and raised his
weapon.Two shots came in quick succession, and two jaguars crumpled
down on the floor.Nothing daunted, the other brutes came on, and Jimmie
seized Carl’s automatic.The only question now was this:

How many bullets did the gun hold?BESIEGED IN THE TEMPLE.As Sam watched the shadow cast by the moonlight on the marble slab at
the entrance, his prisoner turned sharply about and lifted a hand as if
to shield himself from attack.“A savage!” he exclaimed in a terrified whisper.It seemed to Sam Weller at that moment that no word had ever sounded
more musically in his ears.The expression told him that a third element
had entered into the situation.He believed from recent experiences that
the savages who had been seen at the edge of the forest were not exactly
friendly to the two white men.Whether or not they would come to his
assistance was an open question, but at least there was a chance of
their creating a diversion in his favor.“How do you know the shadow is that of a savage?” asked Sam.The prisoner pointed to the wide doorway and crowded back behind his
captor.Mary travelled to the bedroom.There, plainly revealed in the moonlight, were the figures of
two brawny native Indians!Felix was approaching the entrance with a
confident step, and the two watchers saw him stop for an instant and
address a few words to one of the Indians.The next moment the smile on
the fellow’s face shifted to a set expression of terror.Before he could utter another word, he received a blow on the head which
stretched him senseless on the smooth marble.Then a succession of
threatening cries came from the angle of the cliff, and half a dozen
Indians swarmed up to where the unconscious man lay!The prisoner now crouched behind his captor, his body trembling with
fear, his lips uttering almost incoherent appeals for protection.The savages glanced curiously into the temple for a moment and drew
their spears and bludgeons.He
heard blows and low hisses of enmity, but there came no outcry.When he looked again the moonlight showed a dark splotch on the white
marble, and that alone!“Mother of Mercy!” shouted the prisoner in a faltering tone.“Where did they take him?” asked Sam.The prisoner shuddered and made no reply.The mute answer, however, was
sufficient.The young man understood that Felix had been murdered by the
savages within sound of his voice.“Why?” he asked the trembling prisoner.“Because,” was the hesitating answer, “they believe that only evil
spirits come out of the sky in the night-time.”

Sam remembered of his own arrival and that of his friends, and
congratulated himself and them that the savages had not been present to
witness the event.“And they think he came in the machine?” asked Sam.The prisoner shuddered and covered his face with his hands.“And now,” demanded Sam, “in order to save your own life, will you tell
me what I want to know?”

The old sullen look returned to the eyes of the captive.Perhaps he was
thinking of the great reward he might yet receive from his distant
employers if he could escape and satisfy them that the boys had perished
in the trap set for them.At any rate he refused to answer at that time.In fact his hesitation was a brief one, for while Sam waited, a finger
upon the trigger of his automatic, two shots came from the direction of
the chamber across the corridor, and the acrid smell of gunpowder came
to his nostrils.It was undoubtedly his belief
at that time that all his hopes of making a favorable report to his
employers had vanished.The shots, he understood, indicated resistance;
perhaps successful resistance.“Yes,” he said hurriedly, his knees almost giving way under the weight
of his shaking body.“Yes, I’ll tell you where your friends are.”

He hesitated and pointed toward the opposite entrance.“In there!” he cried.“Felix caused them to be thrown to the beasts!”

The young man seized the prisoner fiercely by the throat.“Show me the way!” he demanded.The captive still pointed to the masked entrance across the corridor and
Sam drew him along, almost by main force.When they came to the narrow
passage at the eastern end of which the barred gate stood, they saw a
finger of light directed into the interior of the apartment.While they looked, Sam scarcely knowing what course to pursue, two more
shots sounded from within, and the odor of burned powder became almost
unbearable.Sam threw himself against the iron gate and shouted out:

“Jimmie!Carl!”

“Here!” cried a voice out of the smoke.“Come to the gate with your gun.I missed the last shot, and Carl is down!”

Still pushing the prisoner ahead of him, Sam crowded through the narrow
passage and stood looking over the fellow’s shoulder into the
smoke-scented room beyond.His electric light showed Jimmie standing
with his back against the gate, his feet pushed out to protect the
figure of Carl, lying on the floor against the bars.The searchlight in
the boy’s hand was waving rhythmically in the direction of a pair of
gleaming eyes which looked out of the darkness.“My gun is empty!” Jimmie almost whispered.“I’ll hold the light
straight in his eyes, and you shoot through the bars.”

Sam forced the captive down on the corridor, where he would be out of
the way and still secure from escape, and fired two shots at the
blood-mad eyes inside.The great beast fell to the floor instantly and
lay still for a small fraction of a second then leaped to his feet
again.With jaws wide open and fangs showing threateningly, he sprang toward
Jimmie, but another shot from Sam’s automatic finished the work the
others had begun.Jimmie sank to the floor like one bereft of strength.“Get us out!” he said in a weak voice.“Open the door and get us out!One of the jaguars caught hold of Carl, and I thought I heard the
crunching of bones.The boy may be dead for all I know.”

Sam applied his great strength to the barred gate, but it only shook
mockingly under his straining hands.Then he turned his face downward to
where his prisoner lay cowering upon the floor.“Can you open this gate?” he asked.Once more the fellow’s face became stubborn.“Felix had the key!” he exclaimed.“All right!” cried Sam.“We’ll send you out to Felix to get it!”

He seized the captive by the collar as he spoke and dragged him, not too
gently, through the narrow passage and out into the main corridor.Once
there he continued to force him toward the entrance.The moon was now
low in the west and shadows here and there specked the little plaza in
front of the temple.In addition to the moonlight there was a tint of
gray in the sky which told of approaching day.The prisoner faced the weird scene with an expression of absolute
terror.He almost fought his way back into the temple.“Your choice!” exclaimed Sam.“The key to the gate or you return to the
savages!”

The fellow dropped to his knees and clung to his captor.“I have the key to the gate!” he declared.“But I am not permitted to
surrender it.You must take it from me.”

“You’re loyal to some one, anyhow!” exclaimed Sam, beginning a search of
the fellow’s pockets.At last the key was found, and Sam hurried away with it.He knew then
that there would be no further necessity for guarding the prisoner at
that time.The fact that the hostile savages were abroad and that he was
without weapons would preclude any attempt at escape.At first the young man found it difficult to locate the lock to which
the key belonged.At last he found it, however, and in a moment Jimmie
crept out of the chamber, trying his best to carry Carl in his arms.Are you hurt yourself?” he
added