I never even told the boys when they left New York that
they were bound for Peru on a mission in which I was greatly interested.I thought that perhaps they would get along better and have a merrier
time if they were not loaded down with official business.”

“That wouldn’t have made any difference!” announced Carl.“We’d have
gone right along having as much fun as if we were in our right minds!”

“When I started away from the hangar in the _Ann_,” Mr.Havens
continued, with a smile at the interruption, “I soon saw that some one
in New York was interested in my remaining away from Peru.”

“Redfern’s friends of course!” suggested Mellen.“Exactly!” replied the millionaire.“And Redfern’s friends appeared on the scene last night, too,” Jimmie
decided.“And they managed to make quite a hit on their first
appearance, too,” he continued.“And this man Doran is at present ready
for another engagement if you please.He’s a foxy chap!”

“I’m sorry he got away!” Mellen observed.“Yes, it’s too bad,” Mr.Havens agreed, “but, in any event, we couldn’t
have kept him in prison here isolated from his friends.”

“There’s one good thing about it,” Ben observed, “and that is that we’ve
already set a trap to catch him.”

“How’s that?” asked the millionaire.Mellen has employed a detective to follow Doran’s companion on the
theory that sometime, somewhere, the two will get together again.”

“That’s a very good idea!” Mr.“Now about this man Redfern,” Mr.“Is he believed to be
still in the mountains of Peru?”

“I have at least one very good reason for supposing so,” answered the
millionaire.“Yes, I think he is still there.”

“Give us the good reason!” exclaimed Carl.“I guess we want to know how
to size things up as we go along!”

“The very good reason is this,” replied Mr.Daniel moved to the office.Havens with a smile, “the
minute we started in our airships for the mountains of Peru, obstacles
began to gather in our way.The friends or accomplices of Redfern began
to flutter the instant we headed toward Peru.”

“That strikes me as being a good and sufficient reason for believing
that he is still there!” Mellen commented.“Yes, I think it is!” replied the millionaire.“And it is an especially
good reason,” he went on, “when you understand that all our previous
plans and schemes for Redfern’s capture have never evoked the slightest
resistance.”

“Then the embezzler is in Peru, all right, all right!” laughed Carl.“But Peru is a very large country,” suggested Mr.“There’s a good deal of land in the country,” agreed Jimmie.“When you
come to measure the soil that stands up on end, I guess you’d find Peru
about as large as the United States of America!”

“What are the prospects?” asked Mellen.“What I mean,” he continued, “is
this: Can you put your finger on any one spot on the map of Peru and
say—look there first for Redfern.”

“Yes,” replied Mr.Havens, “I think I can.If you ask me to do it, I’ll
just cover Lake Titicaca with my thumb and tell you to pull Redfern out
of the water as soon as you get to that part of old Incaland!”

“Je-rusalem!” exclaimed Jimmie.“And that takes us right down to the
haunted temple!”

“What kind of a lake is this Titicaca?” asked Glenn.“Don’t you ever read anything except base-ball stories and police court
records?” asked Ben, turning to his friend.John journeyed to the kitchen.“Before I was seven years
old I knew that Lake Titicaca is larger than Lake Erie; that it is five
inches higher in the summer than in the winter, and that the longer you
keep a piece of iron or steel in it the brighter it will become.”

“Is it a fact that the waters of this lake do not rust metal?” asked
Mellen.“That seems to me to be a peculiar circumstance.”

“I have often heard it stated as a fact,” replied Mr.“Ask any one who knows, if you won’t believe me,” Ben went on with a
provoking smile.“It is said that Lake Titicaca represents the oldest
civilization in the world.There are temples built of stones larger than
those used in the pyramids of Egypt.John moved to the garden.The stones have remained in
position after a century because of the nicety with which they are
fitted together.It is said to be impossible to drive the finest needle
between the seams of the walls composed of granite rocks.”

“But what did they want to build such temples and fortresses for?”
demanded Jimmie.“Why didn’t they spend more time playing base-ball?”

“You’re a nut on base-ball!” laughed Ben.“The temples which exist to-day were there when the Incas settled the
country,” the boy continued.“They knew no more of their origin than we
do at this time!”

“They may be a million years old!” exclaimed Carl.“Perhaps that’s as good a guess as any,” replied Ben.“We don’t know how
old they are, and never shall know.”

“Isn’t it a little remarkable,” said Mellen, “that an act of
embezzlement committed in New York City more than two years ago should
lead to a visit to ruined temples in Peru?”

“Now about this Lake Titicaca, about which Ben has given us a bit of
history,” Mr.Havens said, after replying briefly to Mellen’s question.“We have every reason to believe that Redfern has been living in some of
the ancient structures bordering the lake.”

“Did you ever try to unearth the East Side person who wrote the letter
you have just referred to?” asked Ben.John went to the bedroom.“We have spent thousands of dollars in quest of that person,” replied
the millionaire, “and all to no purpose.”

“And what do we do to-morrow?” asked Jimmie, breaking into the
conversation in true boy-fashion.“Why, we’re going to start for Peru!” cried Carl.“And the haunted temples!” laughed Ben.“Honest, boys,” he went on, “I
don’t believe there’s anything in this haunted temple yarn.There may be
temples which are being guarded from the ravages of the superstitious by
interested persons who occasionally play the ghost, but so far as any
supernatural manifestations are concerned the idea is ridiculous.”

“Don’t you ever say anything like that in the vicinity of Lake
Titicaca,” Mellen suggested.“If you do, the natives will suddenly
discover that you are robbers, bent on plunder, and some night, your
bodies may find a resting-place at the bottom of the lake.”

“Do they really believe the temples to be haunted?” asked Glenn.“There are people in whose interest the superstition is kept up,”
replied Ben.“These interested people would doubtless gladly perform the
stunt just suggested by Mellen.”

“I think I’ve got the combination now!” Jimmie laughed.“See if I’m
right.The temples still hold stores of gold, and those searching for
the treasure are keeping adventurous people away by making the ghost
walk.”

“That’s the idea!” Ben replied.“And, look here!” Sam broke in.“Why shouldn’t this man Redfern have a
choice collection of ghosts of his own?”

“That’s an idea, too,” Mr.“I’ll bet he has!” Jimmie insisted.Daniel journeyed to the kitchen.“Then we’ll examine the homes of the ghosts first,” grinned Jimmie.“We’ll walk up to the portal and say: ‘Mr.Ghost, if you’ll materialize
Redfern, we’ll give you half of the reward offered for him by the trust
company.’ That ought to bring him, don’t you think?”

“And here’s another idea,” Sam interrupted.“If Redfern has ghosts in
the temple in which he is hiding—if he really is hiding in a Peruvian
temple—his ghosts will be the most active ghosts on the job.In other
words, we’ll hear more about his haunted temple than any other haunted
temple in all Peru.His ghosts will be in a constant state of eruption!”

“And that’s another good idea,” suggested Mr.“Oh, Sam is wise all right,” Jimmie went on.“I knew that the minute he
told me about unearthing the provisions in the tent before he knew
whether the savages were coming back!”

“Gentlemen,” began Sam, with one of his smooth smiles, “I was so hungry
that I didn’t much care whether the savages came back or not.It
appeared to me then that the last morsel of food that had passed my lips
had exhausted itself at a period farther away than the birth of Adam!”

“You must have been good and hungry!” laughed Mellen.“What did you wander off into that country for?” asked Jimmie.“You
might have known better.”

“I couldn’t remain in the Canal Zone,” replied Sam, “because no one
would give me a job.Everybody seemed to want to talk to me for my own
good.Even the chief in charge of the Gatun dam contract told me——”

“Do you know the chief in charge of the Gatun dam contract?” asked
Havens, casually.“You spoke of him a moment ago as if you had met him
personally.”

“Well, you see,” Sam went on, hesitatingly, “you see I just happened
to——”

The confusion of the young man was so great that no further questions
were asked of him at that time, but all understood that he had
inadvertently lifted a curtain which revealed previous acquaintance with
men like the chief in charge of the Gatun dam.The boy certainly was a
mystery, and they all decided to learn the truth about him before
parting company.Havens said, breaking a rather oppressive silence, “are we
all ready for the roof of the world to-morrow?”

“You bet we’re all ready!” cried Jimmie.“I’m ready right now!” exclaimed Carl.“Will you go with us, Sam?” asked Mr.“I should be glad to!” was the reply.No more was said on the subject at that time, yet all saw by the
expression on the tramp’s face how grateful he was for this new chance
in life which Mr.“Jerusalem!” exclaimed Jimmie in a moment, jumping to his feet and
rushing toward the door.Daniel travelled to the bedroom.“I’ve forgotten something!”

“Something important?” asked Ben.I should say so!” replied Jimmie.“I forgot to eat my
dinner, and I haven’t had any supper yet!”

“How did you come to do it?” asked Mellen.“I didn’t wake up!” was the reply.“And now,” the boy went on, “you see
I’ve got to go and eat two meals all at once.”

“I’ll eat one of them for you,” suggested Sam.“And I’ll eat the other!” volunteered Ben.“Yes you will,” grinned Jimmie.I
was indeed surprised to find that those fellows did not pursue me, nor
can I in any other way account for it, but by supposing, what is not
improbable, that, as they were strangers as well as myself, and had all
the appearance of banditti or ruffians flying out of the dominions of
the Pope, the woman of the house did not care to trust them with her
horses.From the Modanese I continued my journey, more leisurely through
the Parmesan, the Milanese, and part of the Venetian territory, to
Chiavenna, subject to the Grisons, who abhor the very name of the
Inquisition, and are ever ready to receive and protect all who, flying
from it, take refuge, as many Italians do, in their dominions.Still
I carefully concealed who I was, and whence I came, for, though no
Inquisition prevails among the Swiss, yet the Pope's nuncio who resides
at Lucerne, (a popish canton through which I was to pass,) might have
persuaded the magistrate to stop me as an apostate and deserter from the
order.Having rested a few days at Chiavenna, I resumed my journey quite
refreshed, continuing it through the country of the Grisons, and the two
small cantons of Ury and Underwald, to the canton of Lucerne.There
I missed my way, as I was quite unacquainted with the country, and
discovering a city at a distance, was advancing to it, but slowly, as I
knew not where I was, when a countryman whom I met, informed me that the
city before me was Lucerne.Daniel travelled to the hallway.Upon that intelligence, I turned out of the
road as soon as the countryman was out of sight, and that night I
passed with a good natured shepherd in his cottage, who supplied me with
sheep's milk, and my horse with plenty of grass.I set out early next
morning, making my way westward, as I knew that Berne lay west of
Lucerne.But, after a few miles, the country proved very mountainous,
and having travelled the whole day over mountains I was overtaken among
them by night.As I was looking out for a place where I might shelter
myself during the night, against the snow and rain, (for it both snowed
and rained,) I perceived a light at a distance, and making towards it,
I got into a kind of foot-path, but so narrow and rugged that I was
obliged to lead my horse, and feel my way with one foot, (having no
light to direct me,) before I durst move the other.Thus, with much
difficulty I reached the place where the light was, a poor little
cottage, and knocking at the door, was asked by a man within who I was,
and what I wanted?I answered that I was a stranger and had lost my way.exclaimed the man, "ThereSandra moved to the bedroom.