John travelled to the kitchen.Mary journeyed to the bathroom.“We’ve come all this way to light
down on the fortress in the night-time without giving warning of our
approach.That’s why we came here in the flying machines.”

“He thinks Redfern is here?” asked Jimmie.Daniel travelled to the bedroom.“He thinks this is a good place to look for him!” was the reply.“Then we’ll beat him to it!” Jimmie chuckled.Mary moved to the kitchen.Toluca seemed to understand what the boys were about to do and smiled
grimly as the machine lifted from the ground and whirled softly away.John went back to the office.As
the _Louise_ left the valley, Mr.Havens and Sam turned lazily in their
blankets, doubtless disturbed by the sound of the motors, but, all being
quiet about the camp, soon composed themselves to slumber again.John moved to the bathroom.“Now, we’ll have to go slowly!” Ben exclaimed as the machine lifted so
that the lights of the distant mystery came into view, “for the reason
that we mustn’t make too much noise.Besides,” he went on, “we’ve got to
switch off to the east, cut a wide circle around the crags, and come
down on the old fort from the south.”

“And when we get there?” asked Jimmie.“Why,” replied Ben, “we’re going to land and sneak into the fort!That’s
what we’re going for!”

“I hope we won’t tumble into a lot of jaguars, and savages, and
half-breed Spaniards!” exclaimed Jimmie.“Oh, we’re just going to look now,” Ben answered, “and when we find out
what’s going on there we’re coming back and let Mr.We wouldn’t like to take all the glory away from him.”

Following this plan, the boys sent the machine softly away to the east,
flying without lights, and at as low altitude as possible, until they
were some distance away from the camp.In an hour the fortress showed to the north, or at least the summit
under which it lay did.Sandra journeyed to the bathroom.Sandra went back to the garden.“There’s the landing-place just east of that cliff,” Ben exclaimed, as
he swung still lower down.“I’ll see if I can hit it.”

The _Louise_ took kindly to the landing, and in ten minutes more the
boys were moving cautiously in the direction of the old fort, now lying
dark and silent under the starlight.It seemed to Jimmie that his heart
was in his throat as the possible solution of the mystery of the Andes
drew near!TWO RUNAWAY AVIATORS!Mary went to the hallway.Sandra journeyed to the kitchen.Half an hour