Jasper County Community Unit School District 1 is a unified school district based in Jasper County's county seat of Newton, Illinois; it is the only school district in the county and is, consequently, the main educational body in all of Jasper County, although it serves portions of Effingham County and Cumberland County as well.
 This school district is composed of six schools in total; four elementary schools, one junior high school, and one high school.
 There is also a prekindergarten program run at the high school of the district should parents wish to enroll their children early.
 Willow Hill Elementary School, which is located in the village of its namesake, serves only kindergarteners; its proximity to the county seat and central position in the county allows its students to dawn from all parts of the county and still have easy access to the elementary school they will attend.
 The principal of Willow Hill is Dave Parker.
 Grove Elementary School is located in Island Grove, Illinois, the highest point of elevation in the county.
 Grove Elementary School educates students from kindergarten to grade six, and it runs a prekindergarten program as well.
 Craig Carr is the principal of this school.
 Ste. Marie Elementary School is located in the southern Jasper County village of Ste. Marie, and serves students in grades one through six.
 The principal of Ste. Marie is David Parker, the principal of Willow Hill Elementary School.
 Newton Elementary School is located in the county seat of Newton, and serves most of west Jasper County's first through sixth graders under principal Travis Wyatt.
 The latter three elementary schools feed into Jasper County Junior High School and are taught in the facility during seventh and eighth grade while being supervised by Newton Elementary School principal Travis Wyatt before graduating into Newton Community High School.
 Students in grades nine through twelve spend their last leg of precollegiate education at this school; their principal is Ruth Kerner.
 The district superintendent is Ron Alburtus, and the district's mascot is the eagle.