“I think,” Jimmie answered, “one of the brutes gave me a nip in the leg,
but I can walk all right.”

Sam carried Carl to the center of the corridor and laid him down on the
marble floor.A quick examination showed rather a bad wound on the left
shoulder from which considerable blood must have escaped.“He’ll be all right as soon as he regains his strength!” the young man
cried.“And now, Jimmie,” he went on, “let’s see about your wound.”

“It’s only a scratch,” the boy replied, “but it bled like fury, and I
think that’s what makes me so weak.Did we get all the jaguars?” he
added, with a wan smile.“I don’t seem to remember much about the last
two or three minutes.”

“Every last one of them!” answered Sam cheerfully.While Sam was binding Carl’s wound the boy opened his eyes and looked
about the apartment whimsically.“We seem to be alive yet,” he said, rolling his eyes so as to include
Jimmie in his line of vision.“I guess Jimmie was right when he said
that Daniel in the lions’ den was nothing to this.”

“But when they took Daniel out of the lions’ den,” cut in Jimmie, “they
brought him to a place where there was something doing in the way of
sustenance!What about that?”

“Cut it out!” replied Carl feebly.“But, honestly,” Jimmie exclaimed, “I never was so hungry in my life!”

The captive looked at the two boys with amazement mixed with admiration
in his eyes.“And they’re just out of the jaws of death!” he exclaimed.“Is that the greaser that put us into the den of lions?” asked Carl,
pointing to the prisoner.“No, no!” shouted the trembling man.Felix
laid the plans for your murder.”

“The keeper of what?” asked Sam.“Of the wild animals!” was the reply.Sandra went to the garden.“I catch them here for the
American shows.And now they are killed!” he complained.“So that contraption, the masked entrance, the iron gate, and all that,
was arranged to hold wild animals in captivity until they could be
transferred to the coast?” asked Sam.“Exactly!” answered the prisoner.“The natives helped me catch the
jaguars and I kept them for a large payment.Then, yesterday, a runner
told me that a strange white man sought my presence in the forest at the
top of the valley.I met him there, and he arranged with
me for the use of the wild-animal cage for only one night.”

“And you knew the use to which he intended to put it?” asked Sam
angrily.“You knew that he meant murder?”

“I did not!” was the reply.“He told Miguel what to do if any of you
entered and did not tell me.I was not to enter the temple to-night!”

“And where’s Miguel?” demanded the young man.The captive pointed to the broken roof of the temple.“Miguel remained here,” he said, “to let down the gate to the passage
and lift the grate which kept the jaguars in their den.”

“Do you think he’s up there now?” asked Jimmie.“I’d like to see this
person called Miguel.I have a few words to say to him.”

“No, indeed!” answered the prisoner.He probably
took to his heels when the shots were fired.”

The prisoner, who gave his name as Pedro, insisted that he knew nothing
whatever of the purpose of the man who secured his assistance in the
desperate game which had just been played.He declared that Felix seemed
to understand perfectly that Gringoes would soon arrive in flying
machines.He said that the machines were to be wrecked, and the
occupants turned loose in the mountains.It was Pedro’s idea that two, and perhaps three, flying machines were
expected.He said that Felix had no definite idea as to when they would
arrive.He only knew that he had been stationed there to do what he
could to intercept the progress of those on the machines.He said that
the machines had been seen from a distance, and that Felix and himself
had watched the descent into the valley from a secure position in the
forest.They had remained in the forest until the Gringoes had left for
the temple, and had then set about examining the machine.While examining the machine the savages had approached and had naturally
received the impression that Felix was the Gringo who had descended in
the aeroplane.He knew some of the Indians, he said.The Indians, he said, were very superstitious, and believed that flying
machines brought death and disaster to any country they visited.By
making them trifling presents he, himself, had succeeded in keeping on
good terms with them until the machine had descended and been hidden in
the forest.“But,” the prisoner added with a significant shrug of his shoulders,
“when we walked in the direction of the temple the Indians suspected
that Felix had come to visit the evil spirits they believed to dwell
there and so got beyond control.They would kill me now as they killed
him!”

“Do the Indians never attack the temple?” asked Sam.“Perhaps,” Pedro observed, with a sly smile, “you saw the figure in
flowing robes and the red and blue lights!”

“We certainly did!” answered Sam.“While the animals are being collected and held in captivity here,”
Pedro continued, “it is necessary to do such things in order to keep the
savages away.Miguel wears the flowing robes, and drops into the narrow
entrance to an old passage when he finds it necessary to disappear.The
Indians will never actually enter the temple, though they may besiege
it.”

“There goes your ghost story!” Carl interrupted.“Why,” he added, “it’s
about the most commonplace thing I ever heard of!The haunted temple is
just headquarters for the agents of an American menagerie!”

“And all this brings up the old questions,” Jimmie said.“How did the
Redfern bunch know that any one of our airships would show up here?How
did they secure the presence of an agent so far in the interior in so
short a time?I think I’ve asked these questions before!” he added,
grinning.“But I have no recollection of their ever having been answered,” said
Sam.“Say,” questioned Jimmie, with a wink at Carl, “how long is this seance
going to last without food?I’d like to know if we’re never going to
have another breakfast.”

“There’s something to eat in the provision boxes of the _Ann_,” Sam
replied hopefully.“Yes,” said Jimmie sorrowfully, “and there’s a bunch of angry savages
between us and the grub on board the _Ann_!Sandra journeyed to the bedroom.If you look out the door,
you’ll see the brutes inviting us to come out and be cooked!”

The prisoner threw a startled glance outside and ran to the back of the
temple, declaring that the savages were besieging the temple, and that
it might be necessary for them to lock themselves in the chamber for
days with the slain jaguars!Jimmie rubbed his stomach and groaned!On the morning following the departure of Sam and the boys, Mr.Havens
was awakened by laughing voices in the corridor outside his door.His
first impression was that Sam and Jimmie had returned from their
midnight excursion in the _Ann_.He arose and, after dressing hastily,
opened the door, thinking that the adventures of the night must have
been very amusing indeed to leave such a hang-over of merriment for the
morning.When he saw Ben and Glenn standing in the hall he confessed to a feeling
of disappointment, but invited the lads inside without showing it.“You are out early,” he said as the boys, still laughing, dropped into
chairs.“What’s the occasion of the comedy?”

“We’ve been out to the field,” replied Ben, “and we’re laughing to think
how Carl bested Sam and Jimmie last night.”

“What about it?” asked the millionaire.“Why,” Ben continued, “it seems that Sam and Jimmie planned a moonlight
ride in the _Ann_ all by themselves.Carl got next to their scheme and
bounced into the seat with Jimmie just as the machine swung into the
air.I’ll bet Jimmie was good and provoked about that!”

“What time did the _Ann_ return?” asked Havens.“She hasn’t returned yet.”

The millionaire turned from the mirror in which he was completing the
details of his toilet and faced the boys with a startled look in his
eyes.“Are you sure the boys haven’t returned?” Mr.“Anyhow,” Glenn replied, “the _Ann_ hasn’t come back!”

“Did they tell you where they were going?” asked Ben.“They did not,” was the reply.“Sam said that he thought he might be
able to pick up valuable information and asked for the use of the _Ann_
and the company of Jimmie.That’s all he said to me concerning the
moonlight ride he proposed.”

In bringing his mind back to the conversation with Sam on the previous
night, Mr."You wud hae thocht that every meenut was an hour," said Jamie Soutar,
who had been at the threshing, "an' a'll never forget the puir lad lying
as white as deith on the floor o' the loft, wi' his head on a sheaf, an'
Burnbrae haudin' the bandage ticht an' prayin' a' the while, and the
mither greetin' in the corner.she cries, an' a' heard the soond o' the horse's
feet on the road a mile awa in the frosty air.said Burnbrae, and a' slippit doon the ladder
as the doctor came skelpin' intae the close, the foam fleein' frae his
horse's mooth.wes a' that passed his lips, an' in five meenuts he hed
him on the feedin' board, and wes at his wark--sic wark, neeburs--but he
did it weel.An' ae thing a' thocht rael thochtfu' o' him: he first sent
aff the laddie's mither tae get a bed ready."Noo that's feenished, and his constitution 'ill dae the rest," and he
carried the lad doon the ladder in his airms like a bairn, and laid him
in his bed, and waits aside him till he wes sleepin', and then says he:
'Burnbrae, yir gey lad never tae say 'Collie, will yelick?'for a' hevna
tasted meat for saxteen hoors.'"It was michty tae see him come intae the yaird that day, neeburs; the
verra look o' him wes victory."[Illustration: "THE VERRA LOOK O' HIM WES VICTORY"]

Jamie's cynicism slipped off in the enthusiasm of this reminiscence, and
he expressed the feeling of Drumtochty.No one sent for MacLure save in
great straits, and the sight of him put courage in sinking hearts.But
this was not by the grace of his appearance, or the advantage of a good
bedside manner.A tall, gaunt, loosely made man, without an ounce of
superfluous flesh on his body, his face burned a dark brick color by
constant exposure to the weather, red hair and beard turning grey,
honest blue eyes that look you ever in the face, huge hands with wrist
bones like the shank of a ham, and a voice that hurled his salutations
across two fields, he suggested the moor rather  than the drawing-room.But what a clever hand it was in an operation, as delicate as a woman's,
and what a kindly voice it was in the humble room where the shepherd's
wife was weeping by her man's bedside.He was "ill pitten the gither" to
begin with, but many of his physical defects were the penalties of his
work, and endeared him to the Glen.That ugly scar that cut into his
right eyebrow and gave him such a sinister expression, was got one night
Jess slipped on the ice and laid him insensible eight miles from home.His limp marked the big snowstorm in the fifties, when his horse missed
the road in Glen Urtach, and they rolled together in a drift.MacLure
escaped with a broken leg and the fracture of three ribs, but he never
walked like other men again.He could not swing himself into the saddle
without making two attempts and holding Jess's mane.Neither can you
"warstle" through the peat bogs and snow drifts for forty winters
without a touch of rheumatism.But they were honorable scars, and for
such risks of life men get the Victoria Cross in other fields.[Illustration: "FOR SUCH RISKS OF LIFE MEN GET THE VICTORIA CROSS IN
OTHER FIELDS"]

MacLure got nothing but the secret affection of the Glen, which knew
that none had ever done one-tenth as much for it as this ungainly,
twisted, battered figure, and I have  seen a Drumtochty face
soften at the sight of MacLure limping to his horse.Hopps earned the ill-will of the Glen for ever by criticising
the doctor's dress, but indeed it would have filled any townsman with
amazement.Black he wore once a year, on Sacrament Sunday, and, if
possible, at a funeral; topcoat or waterproof never.His jacket and
waistcoat were rough homespun of Glen Urtach wool, which threw off the
wet like a duck's back, and below he was clad in shepherd's tartan
trousers, which disappeared into unpolished riding boots.His shirt was
grey flannel, and he was uncertain about a collar, but certain as to a
tie which he never had, his beard doing instead, and his hat was soft
felt of four colors and seven different shapes.His point of distinction
in dress was the trousers, and they were the subject of unending
speculation."Some threep that he's worn thae eedentical pair the last twenty year,
an' a' mind masel him gettin' a tear ahint, when he was crossin' oor
palin', and the mend's still veesible."Ithers declare 'at he's got a wab o' claith, and hes a new pair made in
Muirtown aince in the twa year maybe, and keeps them in the garden till
the new look wears aff."For ma ain pairt," Soutar used to declare, "a' canna mak up my mind,
but there's ae thing sure, the Glen wud not like tae see him withoot
them: it wud be a shock tae confidence.There's no muckle o' the check
left, but ye can aye tell it, and when ye see thae breeks comin'