“What will the boys
say about your running off in this style?”

“Oh, keep still!” replied Jimmie.“We’re going off on a mission for Mr.You never should have butted in!”

“Oh, let him go!” laughed Sam, as the clamor of the motors gradually
made conversation impossible.“Perhaps he’ll freeze to death and drop
off before long.I guess we’ve got food enough!”

There was no moon in the sky as yet, but the tropical stars looked down
with surprising brilliancy.The country below lay spread out like a
great map.As the lights of Quito faded away in the distance, dark
mountain gorges which looked like giant gashes in the face of mother
earth, mountain cones which seemed to seek companionship with the stars
themselves, and fertile valleys green because of the presence of
mountain streams, swept by sharply and with the rapidity of scenes in a
motion-picture house.As had been said, the _Ann_ had been constructed for the private use of
the millionaire aviator, and was considered by experts to be the
strongest and swiftest aeroplane in the world.On previous tests she had
frequently made as high as one hundred miles an hour on long trips.The
motion of the monster machine in the air was so stable that the
millionaire had often taken prizes for endurance which entitled him to
medals for uninterrupted flights.Jimmie declares to this day that the fastest express train which ever
traveled over the gradeless lines of mother earth had nothing whatever
on the flight of the _Ann_ that night!Although Sam kept the machine
down whenever possible, there were places where high altitudes were
reached in crossing cone summits and mountain chains.At such times the temperature was so low that the boys shivered in their
seat, and more than once Jimmie and Carl protested by signs and gestures
against such high sailing.At two o’clock when the moon rose, bringing every detail of the country
into bold relief, Sam circled over a green valley and finally brought
the aeroplane down to a rest hardly more than four thousand feet above
sea-level.It was warm here, of course, and the two boys almost dropped
from their seat as the fragrant air of the grass-grown valley reached
their nostrils.While Sam busied himself with the running gear of the
flying machine, Jimmie and Carl sprawled out on the lush grass and
compared notes.The moonlight struck the valley so as to illuminate its
western rim while the eastern surface where the machine lay was still
heavy in shadows.“Jiminy!” exclaimed Jimmie, lifting himself on one elbow and gazing at
the wrinkled cones standing all around the valley.“I wonder how Sam
ever managed to drop into this cosy little nest without breaking all our
necks.”

Sam, who seemed to be unaffected by the cold and the strain of the long
flight, stood, oil-can in hand, when the question was asked.In a moment
he walked over to where the boys lay.“I can tell you about that,” he said with a smile.“Not long ago I had a
job running an old ice-wagon of an aeroplane over this country for a
naturalist.We passed this spot several times, and at last came back
here for a rest.Not to put too fine a point upon it, as Micawber would
say, we remained here so long that I became thoroughly acquainted with
the country.It is a lonesome little valley, but a pleasant one.”

“Well, what did we come here for?” asked Carl, in a moment, “and how far
are we from Quito?Seems like a thousand miles!”

“We are something like four hundred miles from the capital city of
Ecuador,” Sam replied, “and the reason why we landed here will be
disclosed when you chase yourselves along the valley and turn to the
right around the first cliff and come face to face with the cunningest
little lake you ever saw, also the haunted temple which stands there!”




                              CHAPTER XII.“A haunted temple?” echoed Jimmie.“I thought the haunted temples were a
lot farther south.”

“There are haunted temples all over Peru, if you leave it to the
natives,” answered Sam.“Whenever there is a reason for keeping
strangers away from such ruins as we are about to visit, the ghosts come
forth at night in white robes and wave weird lights above skeleton
faces.”

“Quit it!” cried Carl.“I’ve got the creeps running up and down my back
right now!Bring me my haunted temples by daylight!”

“Yes,” scorned Jimmie, “we’ll bring you a little pet ghost in a
suit-case.That would be about your size!”

“Honest,” grinned the boy, “I’m scared half to death.”

“What’s the specialty of the ghosts who inhabit this ruined temple?”
asked Jimmie.“Can’t you give us some idea of their antics?”

“If I remember correctly,” Sam replied, with a laugh, “the specialty of
the spirits to whom I am about to introduce you consists of low, soft
music.How does that suit?”

“I tell you to quit it!” cried Carl.“After I prepare the aeroplane for another run,” Sam went on, with a
grin, “I’ll take you around to the temple, if you like.”

“Mother of Moses!” cried Carl.“My hair’s all on end now; and I won’t
dare look into a mirror in the morning for fear I’ll find it turned
white.”

“There’s a strange feeling in my system, too!” Jimmie declared, “but I
think it comes from a lack of sustenance.”

“Jimmie,” declared Carl reproachfully, “I believe you would pick the
pocket of a wailing ghost of a ham sandwich, if he had such a thing
about him!”

“Sure I would!” answered the boy.“What would a ghost want of a ham
sandwich?In those old days the people didn’t eat pork anyway.If you
read the history of those days, you’ll find no mention of the wriggly
little worms which come out of pigs and made trouble for the human
race.”

“Well, if you’re ready now,” Sam broke in, “we’ll take a walk around the
corner of the cliff and see if the ghosts are keeping open house
to-night.”

“You really don’t believe in these ghosts, do you?” asked Jimmie.“I do not!” was the reply.“There ain’t no such animal, is there?” asked Carl.“I have never witnessed any ‘supernatural’ things,” Sam answered, “which
could not be traced eventually to some human agency.Usually to some
interested human agency.”

“Well,” grinned Carl, “if there ain’t any ghosts at this ruined temple,
what’s the use of my going there to see them?”

“You may remain and watch the machine if you care to,” Sam replied.“While we are supposed to be in a valley rarely frequented by human
kind, it may be just as well to leave some one on guard.For instance,”
the young man went on, “a jaguar might come along and eat up the
motors!”

“Jaguars?” exclaimed Carl.“Are they the leopard-like animals that chase
wild horses off the pampas of Brazil, and devour men whenever they get
particularly hungry?”

“The same!” smiled Sam.“Then I want to see the ghosts!” exclaimed Carl.“Come along, then,” advised Sam.“If you didn’t know Carl right well,” Jimmie explained, as they walked
along, “you’d really think he’d tremble at the sight of a ghost or a
wild animal, but he’s the most reckless little idiot in the whole bunch!He’ll talk about being afraid, and then he’ll go and do things that any
boy in his right mind ought not to think of doing.”

“I had an idea that that was about the size of it!” smiled Sam.Presently the party turned the angle of the cliff and came upon a placid
little mountain lake which lay glistening under the moonlight.“Now, where’s your ruined temple?” asked Carl.“At the southern end of the lake,” was the reply.“I see it!” cried Jimmie.“There’s a great white stone that might have
formed part of a tower at one time, and below it is an opening which
looks like an entrance to the New York subway with the lights turned
off.”

The old temple at the head of the lake had frequently been visited by
scientists and many descriptions of it had been written.It stood boldly
out on a headland which extended into the clear waters, and had
evidently at one time been surrounded by gardens.“I don’t see anything very mysterious about that!” Carl remarked.“It
looks to me as if contractors had torn down a cheap old building in
order to erect a skyscraper on the site, and then been pulled off the
job.”

“Wait until you get to it!” warned Jimmie.“I’m listening right now for the low, soft music!” laughed Carl.“Does any one live there?” asked Jimmie in a moment.“As the place is thought by the natives to be haunted,” Sam answered,
“the probability is that no one has set foot inside the place since the
naturalist and myself explored its ruined corridors several weeks ago.”

The boys passed farther on toward the temple, and at last paused on the
north side of a little arm of the lake which would necessitate a wide
detour to the right.From the spot where they stood, the walls of the temple glittered as if
at sometime in the distant past they had been ornamented with designs in
silver and gold.The soft wind of the valley sighed through the openings
mournfully, and it required no vigorous exercise of the imagination to
turn the sounds into man-made music.“Come on, Jimmie,” Carl shouted.“Let’s go and get a front seat.The
concert is just about to begin!”

“There is no hurry!” Jimmy answered.While the three stood viewing the scene, one which never passed from
their memory, a tall, stately figure passed out of the entrance to the
old temple and moved with dignified leisure toward the margin of the
lake.“Now, who’s that?” demanded Carl.“The names of the characters appear on the program in the order of their
entrance!” suggested Jimmie.“Honest, boys,” Sam whispered, “I think you fellows deserve a medal
apiece.Instead of being awed and frightened, standing as you do in the
presence of the old temple, and seeing, as you do, the mysterious figure
moving about, one would think you were occupying seats at a minstrel
show!”

“You said yourself,” insisted Jimmie, “that there wasn’t any such thing
as ghosts.”

“That’s right,” exclaimed Carl.“What’s the use of getting scared at
something that doesn’t exist?”

“The only question in my mind at the present time,” Jimmie went on, with
a grin, “is just this: Is that fellow over there carrying a gun?”

While the boys talked in whispers, Sam had been moving slowly to the
west so as to circle the little cove which separated him from the
temple.In a moment the boys saw him beckoning them to him and pointing toward
the ruins opposite.The figure which had been before observed was now standing close to the
lip of the lake, waving his hands aloft, as if in adoration or
supplication.This posture lasted only a second and then the figure
disappeared as if by magic.There were the smooth waters of the lake with the ruined temple for a
background.There were the moonbeams bringing every detail of the scene
into strong relief.Nothing had changed, except that the person who a
moment before had stood in full view had disappeared as if the earth had
opened at his feet.“Now what do you think of that?” demanded Jimmie.“Say,” chuckled Carl, “do you think that fellow is custodian of the
temple, and has to do that stunt every night, the same as a watchman in
New York has to turn a key in a clock every hour?”

Jimmie nudged his chum in the ribs in appreciation of the observation,
and then stood silent, his eyes fixed on the broken tower across the
cove.While he looked a red light burned for an instant at the apex of the old
tower, and in an instant was followed by a blue light farther up on the
cliff.“You didn’t answer my question,” Carl insisted, in a moment.“Do you
think they pull off this stunt here every night?”

“Oh, keep still!” exclaimed Jimmie.“They don’t have to pull it off
every night.They only put the play on when there’s an audience.”

“An audience?” repeated Carl.“How do they know they’ve got an
audience?”

“Chump!” replied Jimmie scornfully.“Do you think any one can sail an
aeroplane like the _Ann_ over this country without its being seen?Of
course they know they’ve got an audience.”

By this time the boys had advanced to the place where Sam was standing.They found that young man very much interested in the proceedings, and
also very much inclined to silence.“Did you see anything like that when you were here before?” asked
Jimmie.“Did they put the same kind of a show on for you?”

Sam shook his head gravely.“Well, come on!” Carl cried.“Let’s chase around the cove and get those
front seats you spoke about.”

“Wait, boys!” Sam started to say, but before the words were well out of
his mouth the two lads were running helter-skelter along the hard white
beach which circled the western side of the cove.“Come back!” he called to them softly.“It isn’t safe.”

The boys heard the words but paid no heed, so Sam followed swiftly on in
pursuit.He came up with them only after they had reached the very steps
which had at some distant time formed an imposing entrance to a sacred
temple.“What are you going to do?” he demanded.“We’re going inside!” replied Carl.“What do you think we came here for?I guess we’ve got to see the inside.”

“Don’t take any unnecessary risks!” advised Sam.“What’d you bring us here for?” asked Carl.“Oh, come on!” exclaimed Jimmie.“Let’s all go in together!”

Sam hesitated, but the boys seized him by the arms and almost forced him
along.In a moment, however, he was as eager as the others.“Do you mean to say,” asked Jimmie, as they paused for a moment on a
broad stone slab which lay before the portal of the ruined temple, “that
you went inside on your former visit?”

“I certainly did!” was the reply.“Then why are you backing up now?” asked Carl.“On my previous visit,” Sam explained, standing with his back against
the western wall of the entrance, “there were no such demonstrations as
we have seen to-night.Now think that over, kiddies, and tell me what it
means.It’s mighty puzzling to me!”

“Oh, we’ve got the answer to that!” exclaimed Jimmie.“Did you come here
in an aeroplane, or did you walk in?”

“We came in on an aeroplane, early in the morning,” was the reply.“That’s the answer!” exclaimed Jimmie.“The people who are operating
these ghost stunts did not know you were coming because they saw no
lights in the sky.Now we came down with a noise like an express train
and a great big acetylene lamp burning full blast.Don’t you see?”

“That’s the idea!” Carl cried.“The actors and stage hands all
disappeared as soon as you showed around the angle of the cliff.”

“But why should they go through what you call their stunts at this time,
and not on the occasion of my former visit?” asked Sam.“I’ll tell you,” replied Jimmie wrinkling his freckled nose, “there’s
some one who is interested in the case which called us to Peru doing
those stunts.”

“In that case,” Sam declared, “they have a definite reason for keeping
us out of this particular ruin!”

“That’s the idea!” exclaimed Jimmie.“So far as we know, this man
Redfern or some of his associates may be masquerading as ghosts.”

“I came to this temple to-night,” explained Sam, “thinking that perhaps
this might be one of the way stations on the road to Lake Titicaca.”

“You have guessed it!” exclaimed Jimmie.“The men who have been sent
south to warn Redfern are doing their first stunts here!”

“And that,” said Sam, “makes our position a dangerous one!”




                             CHAPTER XIII.“I wonder if they expect to scare us out of the country by such
demonstrations as that?” scoffed Carl.“There is, doubtless, some reason for this demonstration,” Sam observed,
thoughtfully, “other than the general motive to put us in terror of
haunted temples, but just now I can’t see what it is.”

“Redfern may be hiding in there!” suggested Jimmie, with a wink.“Go on!” exclaimed Carl.Havens say that Redfern was in the
vicinity of Lake Titicaca?How could he be here, then?”

“Mr.Havens only said that Redfern was believed to be in the vicinity of
Lake Titicaca,” Sam corrected.“Then they don’t even know where he is!” exclaimed Carl.“Of course they don’t,” laughed Sam.“If they did, they’d go there and
get him.That’s an easy one to answer!”

“Well, if Redfern isn’t in that ruin,” Jimmie declared, “then his own
friends don’t know where he is!”

“Yes, it seems to me,” Sam agreed, “that the men who are trying to reach
him are as much at sea as we are regarding his exact location.”

“If they wasn’t,” Jimmie declared, “they wouldn’t be staging such plays
as that on general principles!”

“Well!” exclaimed Carl.“Here we stand talking as if we had positive
information that the Redfern gang is putting on those stunts, while, as
a matter of fact, we don’t know whether they are or not!”

“And that’s a fact, too!” said Jimmie.“The people in there may be
ignorant of the fact that a man named Redfern ever existed.”

“But the chances are that the Redfern bunch is doing the work all the
same!” insisted Sam.“The only way to find out is to go on in and see!” declared Carl.“Well, come on, then!” exclaimed Jimmie.The two boys darted in together, leaving Sam standing alone for an
instant.He saw the illumination thrown on the interior walls by their
searchlights and lost no time in following on after them.There was not even the sound of bird’s
call or wing.The moonlight, filtering in through a break in what had
once been a granite roof, showed bare white walls with little heaps of
debris in the corners.“It seems to me,” Sam said, as he looked around, “that the ghosts have
chosen a very uncomfortable home.”

“There must be other rooms,” suggested Carl.“There are two which still retain the appearance of apartments as
originally constructed,” replied Sam, “one to the right, and one to the
left.There seems, also, to have been an extension at the rear, but that
is merely a heap of hewn stones at this time.”

As the young man ceased speaking the two boys darted through an opening
in the west wall, swinging their flashlights about as they advanced into
what seemed to be a stone-walled chamber of fair size.Following close
behind, Sam saw the lads directing the rays of their electrics upon a
series of bunks standing against the west wall.The sleeping places were
well provided with pillows and blankets, and seemed to have been very
recently occupied.Sam stepped closer and bent over one of the bunks.“Now, what do you think about ghosts and ghost lights?” asked Jimmie.“These ghosts,” Carl cut in, “seem to have a very good idea as to what
constitutes comfort.”

“Three beds!” exclaimed Jimmie, flashing his light along the wall.“And
that must mean three ghosts!”

Sam proceeded to a corner of the room as yet uninvestigated and was not
much surprised when the round eye of his electric revealed a rough
table, made of wooden planks, bearing dishes and remnants of food.He
called at once to the boys and they gathered about him.“Also,” Carl chuckled, “the three ghosts do not live entirely upon
spiritual food.See there,” he continued, “they’ve had some kind of a
stew, probably made out of game shot in the mountains.”

“And they’ve been making baking powder biscuit, too!” Carl added.“I don’t suppose it would be safe to sample that stew?” Jimmie asked
questioningly.“It looks good enough to eat!”

“Not for me!” declared Carl.While the boys were examining the table and passing comment on the
articles it held, Sam moved softly to the doorway by which they had
entered and looked out into the corridor.Looking from the interior out
to the moonlit lake beyond, the place lost somewhat of the dreary
appearance it had shown when viewed under the searchlights.The walls
were of white marble, as was the floor, and great slashes in the slabs
showed that at one time they had been profusely ornamented with designs
in metal, probably in gold and silver.The moonlight, filtering through the broken roof, disclosed a depression
in the floor in a back corner.This, Sam reasoned, had undoubtedly held
the waters of the fountain hundreds of years before.Directly across
from the doorway in which he stood he saw another break in the wall.On a previous visit this opening, which had once been a doorway, had
been entirely unobstructed.Now a wall of granite blocks lay in the
interior of the apartment, just inside the opening.It seemed to the
young man from where he stood that there might still be means of
entrance by passing between this newly-built wall and the inner surface
of the chamber.Thinking that he would investigate the matter more fully in the future,
Sam turned back to where the boys were standing, still commenting on the
prepared food lying on the table.As he turned back a low, heavy grumble
agitated the air of the apartment.The boys turned quickly, and the three stood not far from the opening in
listening attitudes.The sound increased in volume as the moments
passed.Sandra moved to the kitchen.At first it seemed like the heavy vibrations of throat cords,
either human or animal.Then it lifted into something like a shrill
appeal, which resembled nothing so much as the scream of a woman in
deadly peril.Involuntarily the boys stepped closer to the corridor.“What do you make of it?” whispered Jimmie.“Ghosts!” chuckled Carl.“Some day,” Jimmie suggested, in a graver tone than usual, “you’ll be
punished for your verbal treatment of ghosts!I don’t believe there’s
anything on the face of the earth you won’t make fun of.How do we know
that spirits don’t come back to earth?”

“They may, for all I know,” replied Carl.“I’m not trying to decide the
question, or to make light of it, either, but when I see the lot of
cheap imitations like we’ve been put against to-night, I just have to
express my opinion.”

“They’re cheap imitations, all right!” decided Jimmie.“Cheap?” repeated Carl.“Flowing robes, and disappearing figures, and
mysterious lights, and weird sounds!Why, a fellow couldn’t work off
such manifestations as we’ve seen to-night on the most superstitious
residents of the lower West Side in the City of New York, and they’ll
stand for almost anything!”

“It strikes me,” Sam, who had been listening to the conversation with an
amused smile, declared, “that the sounds we are listening to now may
hardly be classified as wailing!”

“Now, listen,” Carl suggested, “and we’ll see if we can analyze it.”

At that moment the sound ceased.The place seemed more silent than before because of the sudden
cessation.“It doesn’t want to be analyzed!” chuckled Carl.“Come on,” Jimmie urged, “let’s go and see what made it!”

“I think you’ll have to find out where it came from first!” said Carl.“It came from the opening across the second apartment,” explained Sam.“I had little difficulty in locating it.”

“That doesn’t look to me like much of an opening,” argued Carl.“The stones you see,” explained Sam, “are not laid in the entrance from
side to side.They are built up back of the entrance, and my idea is
that there must be a passage-way between them and the interior walls of
the room.That wall, by the way, has been constructed since my previous
visit.So you see,” he added, turning to Carl, “the ghosts in this neck
of the woods build walls as well as make baking powder biscuits.”

“Well, that’s a funny place to build a wall!” Carl asserted.“Perhaps the builders don’t like the idea of their red and blue lights
and ghostly apparatus being exposed to the gaze of the vulgar public,”
suggested Jimmie.“That room is probably the apartment behind the scenes
where the thunder comes from, and where some poor fellow of a supe is
set to holding up the moon!”

“Well, why don’t we go and find out about it?” urged Carl.“Wait until I take a look on the outside,” Sam requested.“The man in
the long white robe may be rising out of the lake by this time.I don’t
know,” he continued, “but that we have done a foolish thing in remaining
here as we have, leaving the aeroplane unguarded.”

“Perhaps I’d better run around the cliff and see if it’s all right!”
suggested Carl.“I’ll be back in a minute.”

“No,” Sam argued, “you two remain here at the main entrance and I’ll go
and see about the machine.Perhaps,” he warned, “you’d better remain
right here, and not attempt to investigate that closed apartment until I
return.I shan’t be gone very long.”

“Oh, of course,” replied Jimmie, “we’ll be good little boys and stand
right here and wait for you to come back—not!”

Carl chuckled as the two watched the young man disappear around the
angle of the cliff.“Before he gets back,” the boy said, “we’ll know all about that room,
won’t we?Say,” he went on in a moment, “I think this haunted temple
business is about the biggest fraud that was ever staged.If people only
knew enough to spot an impostor when they saw one, there wouldn’t be
prisons enough in the world to hold the rascals.”

“You tell that to Sam to-night,” laughed Jimmie.“He likes these
moralizing stunts.Are you going in right now?”

By way of reply Carl stepped into the arch between the two walls and
turned to the right into a passage barely more than a foot in width.Jimmie followed his example, but turned to the left.There the way was
blocked by a granite boulder which reached from the floor to the roof
itself.John travelled to the kitchen.“Nothing doing here!” he called back to Carl.“I’ve found the way!” the latter answered.We’ll be
behind the scenes in about a minute.”

The passage was not more than a couple of yards in length and gave on an
open chamber which seemed, under the light of the electrics, to be
somewhat larger than the one where the conveniences of living had been
found.The faint illumination produced by the flashlights, of course
revealed only a small portion of it at a time.While the boys stood at the end of the narrow passage, studying the
interior as best they might under the circumstances, a sound which came
like the fall of a heavy footstep in the corridor outside reached their
ears.“There’s Sam!” Carl exclaimed.“We’ll leave him at the entrance and go
in.There’s a strange smell here, eh?”

“Smells like a wild animal show!” declared Jimmie.Other footsteps were now heard in the corridor, and Jimmie turned back
to speak with Sam.“That’s Sam all right enough!” the latter exclaimed.“Don’t go away
right now, anyhow.”

“What’s doing?” asked Jimmie.“There’s a light back there!” was the reply, “and some one is moving
around.Can’t you hear the footsteps on the hard stone floor?”

“Mighty soft footsteps!” suggested Jimmie.“Well, I’m going to know exactly what they are!” declared Carl.“Well, why don’t you go on, then?” demanded Jimmie.The two boys stepped forward, walking in the shaft of light proceeding
from their electrics.Once entirely clear of the passage, they kept
straight ahead along the wall and turned the lights toward the center of
the apartment, which seemed darker and drearier than the one recently
visited.Besides the smell of mold and a confined atmosphere there was an odor
which dimly brought back to the minds of the boys previous visits to the
homes of captive animals at the Central Park zoo.“Here!” cried Jimmie directly, “there’s a door just closed behind us!”




                              CHAPTER XIV.When Sam Weller turned the corner of the cliff and looked out at the
spot where the _Ann_ had been left, his first impression was that the
machine had been removed from the valley.He stood for a moment in uncertainty and then, regretting sincerely that
he had remained so long away, cautiously moved along, keeping as close
as possible to the wall of the cliff.In a moment he saw the planes of
the _Ann_ glistening in the moonlight at least a hundred yards from the
place where she had been left.Realizing the presence of hostile interests, he walked on toward the
planes, hoping to be able to get within striking distance before being
discovered.There was no one in sight in the immediate vicinity of the
_Ann_, and yet she was certainly moving slowly over the ground.The inference the young man drew from this was that persons unfamiliar
with flying machines had invaded the valley during his absence.Not
being able to get the machine into the air, they were, apparently, so
far as he could see, rolling it away on its rubber-tired wheels.The
progress was not rapid, but was directed toward a thicket which lay at
the west end of the valley.“That means,” the young man mused, “that they’re trying to steal the
machine!It is evident,” he went on, “that they are apprehensive of
discovery, for they manage to keep themselves out of sight.”

Realizing that it would be impossible for him to pass through the open
moonlight without being observed by those responsible for the erratic
motions of the _Ann_, the young man remained standing perfectly still in
a deep shadow against the face of the cliff.The _Ann_ moved on toward the thicket, and presently reached the shelter
of trees growing there.In a moment she was entirely hidden from view.“Now,” thought Sam, “the people who have been kind enough to change the
position of the machine will doubtless show themselves in the
moonlight.”

In this supposition he was not mistaken, for in a moment two men dressed
in European garments emerged from the shadows of the grove and took
their way across the valley, walking through the moonlight boldly and
with no pretense of concealment.Sam scrutinized the fellows carefully, but could not remember that he
had ever seen either of them before.They were dusky, supple chaps,
evidently of Spanish descent.As they walked they talked together in
English, and occasionally pointed to the angle of the cliff around which
the young man had recently passed.A chattering of excited voices at the edge of the grove now called Sam’s
attention in that direction, and he saw at least half a dozen figures,
apparently those of native Indians, squatting on the ground at the very
edge of the thicket.“And now,” mused Sam, as the men stopped not far away and entered into
what seemed to him to be an excited argument, “I’d like to know how
these people learned of the revival of the hunt for Redfern!It isn’t so
very many days since Havens’ expedition was planned in New York, and
this valley is a good many hundred miles away from that merry old town.”

Entirely at a loss to account for the manner in which information of
this new phase of the search had reached a point in the wilds of Peru
almost as soon as the record-breaking aeroplane could have carried the
news, the young man gave up the problem for the time being and devoted
his entire attention to the two men in European dress.“I tell you they are in the temple,” one of the men said speaking in a
corrupt dialect of the English language which it is useless to attempt
to reproduce.“They are in the temple at this minute!”

“Don’t be too sure of that, Felix!” the other said.“And what is more,” the man who had been called Felix went on, “they
will never leave the temple alive!”

“And so fails the great expedition!” chuckled the second speaker.“When we are certain that what must be has actually taken place,” Felix
went on, “I’ll hide the flying machine in a safer place, pay you as
agreed, and make my way back to Quito.Does that satisfy you?”

“I shall be satisfied when I have the feeling of the gold of the
Gringoes!” was the reply.Sam caught his breath sharply as he listened to the conversation.“There was some trap in the temple, then,” he mused, “designed to get us
out of the way.I should have known that,” he went on, bitterly, “and
should never have left the boys alone there!”

The two men advanced nearer to the angle of the cliff and seemed to be
waiting the approach of some one from the other side.“And Miguel?” asked Felix.“Why is he not here?”

“Can you trust him?” he added, in a moment.“With my own life!”

“The Gringoes are clever!” warned Felix.“But see!” exclaimed the other.There surely can be no mistake.”

The men lapsed into silence and stood listening.Sam began to hope that
their plans had indeed gone wrong.For a moment he was uncertain as to what he ought to do.He believed
that in the absence of the two leaders he might be able to get the _Ann_
into the air and so bring assistance to the boys.And yet, he could not
put aside the impression that immediate assistance was the only sort
which could ever be of any benefit to the two lads!“If they are in some trap in the temple,” he soliloquized, “the thing to
do is to get to them as soon as possible, even if we do lose the
machine, which, after all, is not certain.”

“The flying machine,” the man who had been called Felix was now heard to
say, “is of great value.It would bring a fortune in London.”

“But how are you to get it out of this district just at this time?”
asked the other.“How to get it out without discovery?”

“Fly it out!”

“Can you fly it out?” asked the other in a sarcastic tone.“There are plenty who can!” replied Felix, somewhat angrily.“But it is
not to be taken out at present,” he went on.“To lift it in the air now
would be to notify every Gringo from Quito to Lima that the prize
machine of the New York Millionaire, having been stolen, is in this part
of the country.”

“That is very true,” replied the other.“Hence, I have hidden it,” Felix went on.Are they safe?” was the next question.“As safe as such people usually are!” was the answer.As Sam Weller listened, his mind was busily considering one expedient
after another, plan after plan, which presented the least particle of
hope for the release of the boys.From the conversation he had overheard
he understood that the machine would not be removed for a number of
days—until, in fact, the hue and cry over its loss had died out.This, at least, lightened the difficulties to some extent.He could
devote his entire attention to the situation at the temple without
thought of the valuable aeroplane, but how to get to the temple with
those two ruffians in the way!Only for the savage associates in the
background, it is probable that he would have opened fire on the two
schemers.That was a sufficient reason, to
his mind, to bring about decisive action on his part.However, the
savages were there, just at the edge of the forest, and an attack on the
two leaders would undoubtedly bring them into action.Of course it was
not advisable for him to undertake a contest involving life and death
with such odds against him.The two men were still standing at the angle of the cliff.Only for the brilliant moonlight, Sam believed that he might elude their
vigilance and so make his way to the temple.But there was not a cloud
in the sky, and the illumination seemed to grow stronger every moment as
the moon passed over to the west.At last the very thing the young man had hoped for in vain took place.A
jumble of excited voices came from the thicket, and the men who were
watching turned instantly in that direction.As they looked, the sound
of blows and cries of pain came from the jungle.“Those brutes will be eating each other alive next!” exclaimed Felix.“That is so!” answered the other.“I warned you!”

“Suppose you go back and see what’s wrong?” suggested Felix.“I have no influence over the savages,” was the reply, “and besides, the
temple must be watched.”

With an exclamation of anger Felix started away in the direction of the
forest.It was evident that he had his work cut out for him there, for
the savages were fighting desperately, and his approach did not appear
to terminate the engagement.The man left at the angle of the cliff to watch and wait for news from
the temple moved farther around the bend and stood leaning against the
cliff, listening.The rattling of a
pebble betrayed the young man’s presence, and his hands upon the throat
of the other alone prevented an outcry which would have brought Felix,
and perhaps several of the savages, to the scene.It was a desperate, wordless, almost noiseless, struggle that ensued.The young man’s muscles, thanks to months of mountain exercise and
freedom from stimulants and narcotics, were hard as iron, while those of
his opponent seemed flabby and out of condition, doubtless because of
too soft living in the immediate past.The contest, therefore, was not of long duration.Realizing that he was
about to lapse into unconsciousness, Sam’s opponent threw out his hands
in token of surrender.The young man deftly searched the fellow’s person
for weapons and then drew him to his feet.“Now,” he said, presenting his automatic to the fellow’s breast, “if you
utter a word or signal calculated to bring you help, that help will come
too late, even if it is only one instant away.At the first sound or
indication of resistance, I’ll put half a clip of bullets through your
heart!”

“You have the victory!” exclaimed the other sullenly.“Move along toward the temple!” demanded Sam.“It is not for me to go there!” was the reply.“And I’ll walk along behind you,” Sam went on, “and see that you have a
ballast of bullets if any treachery is attempted.”

“It is forbidden me to go to the temple to-night,” the other answered,
“but, under the circumstances, I go!”

Fearful that Felix might return at any moment, or that the savages,
enraged beyond control, might break away in the direction of the temple,
Sam pushed the fellow along as rapidly as possible, and the two soon
came to the great entrance of that which, centuries before, had been a
sacred edifice.The fellow shuddered as he stepped into the musty
interior.“It is not for me to enter!” he said.“And now,” Sam began, motioning his captive toward the chamber where the
bunks and provisions had been discovered, “tell me about this trap which
was set to-night for my chums.”

“I know nothing!” was the answer.“That is false,” replied Sam.“I overheard the conversation you had with
Felix before the outbreak of the savages.”

“I know nothing!” insisted the other.“Now, let me tell you this,” Sam said, flashing his automatic back and
forth under the shaft of light which now fell almost directly upon the
two, “my friends may be in deadly peril at this time.It may be that one
instant’s hesitation on your part will bring them to death.”

The fellow shrugged his shoulders impudently and threw out his hands.Sam saw that he was watching the great entrance carefully, and became
suspicious that some indication of the approach of Felix had been
observed.“I have no time to waste in arguments,” Sam went on excitedly.“The trap
you have set for my friends may be taking their lives at this moment.I
will give you thirty seconds in which to reveal to me their whereabouts,
and to inform me as to the correct course to take in order to protect
them.”

The fellow started back and fixed his eyes again on the entrance, and
Sam, following his example, saw something which sent the blood rushing
to his heart.Outlined on the white stone was the shadow of a human being!Although not in sight, either an enemy or a friend was at hand!“Door?” repeated Carl, in reply to his chum’s exclamation.“There’s no
door here!”

“But there is!” insisted Jimmie.“I heard the rattle of iron against
granite only a moment ago!”

As the boy spoke he turned his flashlight back to the narrow passage and
then, catching his chum by the arm, pointed with a hand which was not
altogether steady to an iron grating which had swung or dropped from
some point unknown into a position which effectually barred their return
to the outer air!The bars of the gate, for it was little else, were not
brown and rusty but bright and apparently new.“That’s a new feature of the establishment,” Jimmie asserted.“That gate
hasn’t been long exposed to this damp air!”

“I don’t care how long it hasn’t been here!” Carl said, rather crossly.“What I want to know is how long is it going to remain there?”

“I hope it will let us out before dinner time,” suggested Jimmie.“Away, you and your appetite!” exclaimed Carl.“I suppose you think this
is some sort of a joke.You make me tired!”

“And the fact that we couldn’t get out if we wanted to,” Jimmie grinned,
“makes me hungry!”

“Cut it out!” cried Carl.“The thing for us to do now is to find some
way of getting by that man-made obstruction.”

“Man-made is all right!” agreed Jimmie.“It is perfectly clear, now,
isn’t it, that the supernatural had nothing to do with the
demonstrations we have seen here!”

“I thought you understood that before!” cried Carl, impatiently.Jimmie, who stood nearest to the gate, now laid a hand upon one of the
upright bars and brought his whole strength to bear.The obstruction
rattled slightly but remained firm.“Can’t move it!” the boy said.“We may have to tear the wall down!”

“And the man who swung the gate into position?” questioned Carl.“What
do you think he’ll be doing while we’re pulling down that heap of
stones?You’ve got to think of something better than that, my son!”

“Anyway,” Jimmie said, hopefully, “Sam is on the outside, and he’ll soon
find out that we’ve been caught in a trap.”

“I don’t want to pose as a prophet of evil, or anything like that,” Carl
went on, “but it’s just possible that he may have been caught in a trap,
too.Anyway, it’s up to us to go ahead and get out, if we can, without
any reference to assistance from the outside.”

“Go ahead, then!” Jimmie exclaimed.“I’m in with anything you propose!”

The boys now exerted their united strength on the bars of the gate, but
all to no purpose.So far as they could determine, the iron contrivance
had been dropped down from above into grooves in the stone-work on
either side.The bars were an inch or more in thickness, and firmly
enclosed in parallel beams of small size which crossed them at regular
intervals.Seeing the condition of affairs, Jimmie suggested:

“Perhaps we can push it up!”

“Anything is worth trying!” replied Carl.But the gate was too firmly in place to be moved, even a fraction of an
inch, by their joint efforts.“Now, see here,” Jimmie said, after a short and almost painful silence,
“there’s no knowing how long we may be held in this confounded old
dungeon.We’ll need light as long as we’re here, so I suggest that we
use only one flashlight at a time.”

“That will help some!” answered Carl, extinguishing his electric.Jimmie threw his light along the walls of the chamber and over the
floor.There appeared to be no break of any kind in the white marble
which shut in the apartment, except at one point in a distant corner,
where a slab had been removed.“Perhaps,” suggested Carl, “the hole in the corner is exactly the thing
we’re looking for.”

“It strikes me,” said Jimmie, “that one of us saw a light in that corner
not long ago.I don’t remember whether you called my attention to it, or
whether I saw it first, but I remember that we talked about a light in
the apartment as we looked in.”

“Perhaps we’d better watch the hole a few minutes before moving over to
it,” suggested Carl.“The place it leads to may hold a group of savages,
or a couple of renegades, sent on here to make trouble for casual
visitors.”

“Casual visitors!” repeated Jimmie.“That doesn’t go with me!You know,
and I know, that this stage was set for our personal benefit!How the
Redfern bunch got the men in here so quickly, or how they got the
information into this topsy-turvy old country, is another question.”

“I presume you are right,” Carl agreed.“In some particulars,” the boy
went on, “this seems to me to be a situation somewhat similar to our
experiences in the California mountains.”

“Right you are!” cried Jimmie.The circle of light from the electric illuminated the corner where the
break in the wall had been observed only faintly.Determined to discover
everything possible regarding what might be an exit from the apartment,
Jimmie kept his light fixed steadily on that corner.In a couple of minutes Carl caught the boy by the arm and pointed along
the finger of light.“Hold it steadier now,” he said.“I saw a movement there just now.”

“What kind of a movement?” asked the other.“Looked like a ball of fire.”

“It may be the cat!” suggested Jimmie.“Quit your foolishness!” advised Carl impatiently.“This is a serious
situation, and there’s no time for any grandstanding!”

“A ball of fire!” repeated Jimmie scornfully.“What would a ball of fire
be doing there?”

“What would a blue ball of fire be doing on the roof?” asked Carl,
reprovingly.“Yet we saw one there, didn’t we?”

Although Jimmie was inclined to treat the situation as lightly as
possible, he knew very well that the peril was considerable.Like a good
many other boys in a trying situation, he was usually inclined to keep
his unpleasant mental processes to himself.He now engaged in what
seemed to Carl to be trivial conversation, yet the desperate situation
was no less firmly impressed upon his mind.The boys waited for some moments before speaking again, listening and
watching for the reappearance of the object which had attracted their
attention.“There!” Carl cried in a moment.“Move your light a little to the left.I’m sure I saw a flash of color pass the opening.”

“I saw that too!” Jimmie agreed.“Now what do you think it can be?”

In a moment there was no longer doubt regarding the presence at the
opening which was being watched so closely.The deep vocal vibrations
which had been noticed from the other chamber seemed to shake the very
wall against which the boy stood.As before, it was followed in a moment
by the piercing, lifting cry which on the first occasion had suggested
the appeal of a woman in agony or terror.The boys stood motionless, grasping each other by the hand, and so each
seeking the sympathy and support of the other, until the weird sound
died out.“And that,” said Jimmie in a moment, “is no ghost!”

“Ghost?” repeated Carl scornfully.“You may as well talk about a ghost
making that gate and setting it against us!”

“Anyway,” Jimmie replied, “the wail left an odor of sulphur in the air!”

“Yes,” answered Carl, “and the sulphur you speak of is a sulphur which
comes from the dens of wild beasts!Now do you know what we’re up
against?”

“Mountain lions!” exclaimed Jimmie.“Jaguars!” answered Carl.“I hope they’re locked in!” suggested Jimmie.“Can you see anything that looks like a grate before that opening?”
asked Carl.“I’m sure I can’t.”

“Nothing doing in that direction!” was the reply.At regular intervals, now, a great, lithe, crouching body could be seen
moving back and forth at the opening, and now and then a cat-like head
was pushed into the room!At such times the eyes of the animal, whatever
it was, shone like balls of red fire in the reflection of the electric
light.Although naturally resourceful and courageous, the two boys
actually abandoned hope of ever getting out of the place alive!“I wonder how many wild animals there are in there?” asked Carl in a
moment.“It seems to me that I have seen two separate figures.”

“There may be a dozen for all we know,” Jimmie returned.“Gee!” he
exclaimed, reverting to his habit of concealing serious thoughts by
lightly spoken words, “Daniel in the lion’s den had nothing on us!”

“How many shots have you in your automatic?” asked Carl, drawing his own
from his pocket.“We’ll have to do some shooting, probably.”

“Why, I have a full clip of cartridges,” Jimmie answered.“But have you?” insisted Carl.“Why, surely, I have!” returned Jimmie.“Don’t you remember we filled
our guns night before last and never——”

“I thought so!” exclaimed Carl, ruefully.“We put in fresh clips night
before last, and exploded eight or nine cartridges apiece on the return
trip to Quito.Now, how many bullets do you think you have available?One or two?”

“I don’t know!” replied Jimmie, and there was almost a sob in his voice
as he spoke.“I presume I have only one.”

“Perhaps the electric light may keep the brutes away,” said Carl
hopefully.“You know wild animals are afraid of fire.”

“Yes, it may,” replied Jimmie, “but it strikes me that our little
torches will soon become insufficient protectors.Those are jaguars out
there, I suppose you know.And they creep up to camp-fires and steal
savage children almost out of their mothers’ arms!”

“Where do you suppose Sam is by this time?” asked Carl, in a moment, as
the cat-like head appeared for the fourth or fifth time at the opening.“I’m afraid Sam couldn’t get in here in time to do us any good even if
he stood in the corridor outside!” was the reply.“Whatever is done,
we’ve got to do ourselves.”

“And that brings us down to a case of shooting!” Carl declared.“It’s only a question of time,” Jimmie went on, “when the jaguars will
become hungry enough to attack us.When they get into the opening, full
under the light of the electric, we’ll shoot.”

“I’ll hold the light,” Carl argued, “and you do the shooting.You’re a
better marksman than I am, you know!When your last cartridge is gone,
I’ll hand you my gun and you can empty that.If there’s only two animals
and you are lucky with your aim, we may escape with our lives so far as
this one danger is concerned.How we are to make our escape after that
is another matter.”

“If there are more than two jaguars,” Jimmie answered, “or if I’m
unlucky enough to injure one without inflicting a fatal wound, it will
be good-bye to the good old flying machines.”

“That’s about the size of it!” Carl agreed.All this conversation had occurred, of course, at intervals, whenever
the boys found the heart to put their hopes and plans into words.It
seemed to them that they had already spent hours in the desperate
situation in which they found themselves.The periods of silence,
however, had been briefer than they thought, and the time between the
departure of Sam and that moment was not much more than half an hour.“There are two heads now!” Jimmie said, after a time, “and they’re
coming out!Hold your light steady when they reach the center of the
room.I can’t afford to miss my aim.”

“Is your arm steady?” almost whispered Carl.“Never better!” answered Jimmie.Four powerful, hungry, jaguars, instead of two, crept out of the
opening!Jimmie tried to cheer his companion with the whispered hope
that there might possibly be bullets enough for them all, and raised his
weapon.Two shots came in quick succession, and two jaguars crumpled
down on the floor.Nothing daunted, the other brutes came on, and Jimmie
seized Carl’s automatic.The only question now was this:

How many bullets did the gun hold?BESIEGED IN THE TEMPLE.As Sam watched the shadow cast by the moonlight on the marble slab at
the entrance, his prisoner turned sharply about and lifted a hand as if
to shield himself from attack.“A savage!” he exclaimed in a terrified whisper.It seemed to Sam Weller at that moment that no word had ever sounded
more musically in his ears.The expression told him that a third element
had entered into the situation.He believed from recent experiences that
the savages who had been seen at the edge of the forest were not exactly
friendly to the two white men.Whether or not they would come to his
assistance was an open question, but at least there was a chance of
their creating a diversion in his favor.“How do you know the shadow is that of a savage?” asked Sam.The prisoner pointed to the wide doorway and crowded back behind his
captor.There, plainly revealed in the moonlight, were the figures of
two brawny native Indians!Felix was approaching the entrance with a
confident step, and the two watchers saw him stop for an instant and
address a few words to one of the Indians.The next moment the smile on
the fellow’s face shifted to a set expression of terror.Before he could utter another word, he received a blow on the head which
stretched him senseless on the smooth marble.Then a succession of
threatening cries came from the angle of the cliff, and half a dozen
Indians swarmed up to where the unconscious man lay!The prisoner now crouched behind his captor, his body trembling with
fear, his lips uttering almost incoherent appeals for protection.The savages glanced curiously into the temple for a moment and drew
their spears and bludgeons.He
heard blows and low hisses of enmity, but there came no outcry.When he looked again the moonlight showed a dark splotch on the white
marble, and that alone!“Mother of Mercy!” shouted the prisoner in a faltering tone.“Where did they take him?” asked Sam.The prisoner shuddered and made no reply.The mute answer, however, was
sufficient.The young man understood that Felix had been murdered by the
savages within sound of his voice.“Why?” he asked the trembling prisoner.“Because,” was the hesitating answer, “they believe that only evil
spirits come out of the sky in the night-time.”

Sam remembered of his own arrival and that of his friends, and
congratulated himself and them that the savages had not been present to
witness the event.“And they think he came in the machine?” asked Sam.The prisoner shuddered and covered his face with his hands.“And now,” demanded Sam, “in order to save your own life, will you tell
me what I want to know?”

The old sullen look returned to the eyes of the captive.Perhaps he was
thinking of the great reward he might yet receive from his distant
employers if he could escape and satisfy them that the boys had perished
in the trap set for them.At any rate he refused to answer at that time.In fact his hesitation was a brief one, for while Sam waited, a finger
upon the trigger of his automatic, two shots came from the direction of
the chamber across the corridor, and the acrid smell of gunpowder came
to his nostrils.It was undoubtedly his belief
at that time that all his hopes of making a favorable report to his
employers had vanished.The shots, he understood, indicated resistance;
perhaps successful resistance.“Yes,” he said hurriedly, his knees almost giving way under the weight
of his shaking body.“Yes, I’ll tell you where your friends are.”

He hesitated and pointed toward the opposite entrance.“In there!” he cried.“Felix caused them to be thrown to the beasts!”

The young man seized the prisoner fiercely by the throat.“Show me the way!” he demanded.The captive still pointed to the masked entrance across the corridor and
Sam drew him along, almost by main force.When they came to the narrow
passage at the eastern end of which the barred gate stood, they saw a
finger of light directed into the interior of the apartment.While they looked, Sam scarcely knowing what course to pursue, two more
shots sounded from within, and the odor of burned powder became almost
unbearable.Sam threw himself against the iron gate and shouted out:

“Jimmie!Carl!”

“Here!” cried a voice out of the smoke.“Come to the gate with your gun.I missed the last shot, and Carl is down!”

Still pushing the prisoner ahead of him, Sam crowded through the narrow
passage and stood looking over the fellow’s shoulder into the
smoke-scented room beyond.His electric light showed Jimmie standing
with his back against the gate, his feet pushed out to protect the
figure of Carl, lying on the floor against the bars.The searchlight in
the boy’s hand was waving rhythmically in the direction of a pair of
gleaming eyes which looked out of the darkness.“My gun is empty!” Jimmie almost whispered.“I’ll hold the light
straight in his eyes, and you shoot through the bars.”

Sam forced the captive down on the corridor, where he would be out of
the way and still secure from escape, and fired two shots at the
blood-mad eyes inside.The great beast fell to the floor instantly and
lay still for a small fraction of a second then leaped to his feet
again.With jaws wide open and fangs showing threateningly, he sprang toward
Jimmie, but another shot from Sam’s automatic finished the work the
others had begun.Jimmie sank to the floor like one bereft of strength.“Get us out!” he said in a weak voice.“Open the door and get us out!One of the jaguars caught hold of Carl, and I thought I heard the
crunching of bones.The boy may be dead for all I know.”

Sam applied his great strength to the barred gate, but it only shook
mockingly under his straining hands.Then he turned his face downward to
where his prisoner lay cowering upon the floor.“Can you open this gate?” he asked.Once more the fellow’s face became stubborn.“Felix had the key!” he exclaimed.“All right!” cried Sam.“We’ll send you out to Felix to get it!”

He seized the captive by the collar as he spoke and dragged him, not too
gently, through the narrow passage and out into the main corridor.Once
there he continued to force him toward the entrance.The moon was now
low in the west and shadows here and there specked the little plaza in
front of the temple.In addition to the moonlight there was a tint of
gray in the sky which told of approaching day.The prisoner faced the weird scene with an expression of absolute
terror.He almost fought his way back into the temple.“Your choice!” exclaimed Sam.“The key to the gate or you return to the
savages!”

The fellow dropped to his knees and clung to his captor.“I have the key to the gate!” he declared.“But I am not permitted to
surrender it.You must take it from me.”

“You’re loyal to some one, anyhow!” exclaimed Sam, beginning a search of
the fellow’s pockets.At last the key was found, and Sam hurried away with it.He knew then
that there would be no further necessity for guarding the prisoner at
that time.The fact that the hostile savages were abroad and that he was
without weapons would preclude any attempt at escape.At first the young man found it difficult to locate the lock to which
the key belonged.At last he found it, however, and in a moment Jimmie
crept out of the chamber, trying his best to carry Carl in his arms.Are you hurt yourself?” he
added as Jimmie leaned against the wall.“I think,” Jimmie answered, “one of the brutes gave me a nip in the leg,
but I can walk all right.”

Sam carried Carl to the center of the corridor and laid him down on the
marble floor.A quick examination showed rather a bad wound on the left
shoulder from which considerable blood must have escaped.“He’ll be all right as soon as he regains his strength!” the young man
cried.“And now, Jimmie,” he went on, “let’s see about your wound.”

“It’s only a scratch,” the boy replied, “but it bled like fury, and I
think that’s what makes me so weak.Did we get all the jaguars?” he
added, with a wan smile.“I don’t seem to remember much about the last
two or three minutes.”

“Every last one of them!” answered Sam cheerfully.While Sam was binding Carl’s wound the boy opened his eyes and looked
about the apartment whimsically.“We seem to be alive yet,” he said, rolling his eyes so as to include
Jimmie in his line of vision.“I guess Jimmie was right when he said
that Daniel in the lions’ den was nothing to this.”

“But when they took Daniel out of the lions’ den,” cut in Jimmie, “they
brought him to a place where there was something doing in the way of
sustenance!What about that?”

“Cut it out!” replied Carl feebly.“But, honestly,” Jimmie exclaimed, “I never was so hungry in my life!”

The captive looked at the two boys with amazement mixed with admiration
in his eyes.“And they’re just out of the jaws of death!” he exclaimed.“Is that the greaser that put us into the den of lions?” asked Carl,
pointing to the prisoner.“No, no!” shouted the trembling man.Felix
laid the plans for your murder.”

“The keeper of what?” asked Sam.“Of the wild animals!” was the reply.“I catch them here for the
American shows.And now they are killed!” he complained.“So that contraption, the masked entrance, the iron gate, and all that,
was arranged to hold wild animals in captivity until they could be
transferred to the coast?” asked Sam.“Exactly!” answered the prisoner.“The natives helped me catch the
jaguars and I kept them for a large payment.Then, yesterday, a runner
told me that a strange white man sought my presence in the forest at the
top of the valley.I met him there, and he arranged with
me for the use of the wild-animal cage for only one night.”

“And you knew the use to which he intended to put it?” asked Sam
angrily.“You knew that he meant murder?”

“I did not!” was the reply.“He told Miguel what to do if any of you
entered and did not tell me.I was not to enter the temple to-night!”

“And where’s Miguel?” demanded the young man.The captive pointed to the broken roof of the temple.“Miguel remained here,” he said, “to let down the gate to the passage
and lift the grate which kept the jaguars in their den.”

“Do you think he’s up there now?” asked Jimmie.“I’d like to see this
person called Miguel.I have a few words to say to him.”

“No, indeed!” answered the prisoner.He probably
took to his heels when the shots were fired.”

The prisoner, who gave his name as Pedro, insisted that he knew nothing
whatever of the purpose of the man who secured his assistance in the
desperate game which had just been played.He declared that Felix seemed
to understand perfectly that Gringoes would soon arrive in flying
machines.He said that the machines were to be wrecked, and the
occupants turned loose in the mountains.It was Pedro’s idea that two, and perhaps three, flying machines were
expected.He said that Felix had no definite idea as to when they would
arrive.He only knew that he had been stationed there to do what he
could to intercept the progress of those on the machines.He said that
the machines had been seen from a distance, and that Felix and himself
had watched the descent into the valley from a secure position in the
forest.They had remained in the forest until the Gringoes had left for
the temple, and had then set about examining the machine.While examining the machine the savages had approached and had naturally
received the impression that Felix was the Gringo who had descended in
the aeroplane.He knew some of the Indians, he said.The Indians, he said, were very superstitious, and believed that flying
machines brought death and disaster to any country they visited.By
making them trifling presents he, himself, had succeeded in keeping on
good terms with them until the machine had descended and been hidden in
the forest.“But,” the prisoner added with a significant shrug of his shoulders,
“when we walked in the direction of the temple the Indians suspected
that Felix had come to visit the evil spirits they believed to dwell
there and so got beyond control.They would kill me now as they killed
him!”

“Do the Indians never attack the temple?” asked Sam.“Perhaps,” Pedro observed, with a sly smile, “you saw the figure in
flowing robes and the red and blue lights!”

“We certainly did!” answered Sam.“While the animals are being collected and held in captivity here,”
Pedro continued, “it is necessary to do such things in order to keep the
savages away.Miguel wears the flowing robes, and drops into the narrow
entrance to an old passage when he finds it necessary to disappear.The
Indians will never actually enter the temple, though they may besiege
it.”

“There goes your ghost story!” Carl interrupted.“Why,” he added, “it’s
about the most commonplace thing I ever heard of!The haunted temple is
just headquarters for the agents of an American menagerie!”

“And all this brings up the old questions,” Jimmie said.“How did the
Redfern bunch know that any one of our airships would show up here?How
did they secure the presence of an agent so far in the interior in so
short a time?I think I’ve asked these questions before!” he added,
grinning.“But I have no recollection of their ever having been answered,” said
Sam.“Say,” questioned Jimmie, with a wink at Carl, “how long is this seance
going to last without food?I’d like to know if we’re never going to
have another breakfast.”

“There’s something to eat in the provision boxes of the _Ann_,” Sam
replied hopefully.Sandra journeyed to the office.“Yes,” said Jimmie sorrowfully, “and there’s a bunch of angry savages
between us and the grub on board the _Ann_!If you look out the door,
you’ll see the brutes inviting us to come out and be cooked!”

The prisoner threw a startled glance outside and ran to the back of the
temple, declaring that the savages were besieging the temple, and that
it might be necessary for them to lock themselves in the chamber for
days with the slain jaguars!Jimmie rubbed his stomach and groaned!On the morning following the departure of Sam and the boys, Mr.Havens
was awakened by laughing voices in the corridor outside his door.His
first impression was that Sam and Jimmie had returned from their
midnight excursion in the _Ann_.He arose and, after dressing hastily,
opened the door, thinking that the adventures of the night must have
been very amusing indeed to leave such a hang-over of merriment for the
morning.When he saw Ben and Glenn standing in the hall he confessed to a feeling
of disappointment, but invited the lads inside without showing it.“You are out early,” he said as the boys, still laughing, dropped into
chairs.“What’s the occasion of the comedy?”

“We’ve been out to the field,” replied Ben, “and we’re laughing to think
how Carl bested Sam and Jimmie last night.”

“What about it?” asked the millionaire.“Why,” Ben continued, “it seems that Sam and Jimmie planned a moonlight
ride in the _Ann_ all by themselves.Carl got next to their scheme and
bounced into the seat with Jimmie just as the machine swung into the
air.I’ll bet Jimmie was good and provoked about that!”

“What time did the _Ann_ return?” asked Havens.“She hasn’t returned yet.”

The millionaire turned from the mirror in which he was completing the
details of his toilet and faced the boys with a startled look in his
eyes.“Are you sure the boys haven’t returned?” Mr.“Anyhow,” Glenn replied, “the _Ann_ hasn’t come back!”

“Did they tell you where they were going?” asked Ben.“They did not,” was the reply.“Sam said that he thought he might be
able to pick up valuable information and asked for the use of the _Ann_
and the company of Jimmie.That’s all he said to me concerning the
moonlight ride he proposed.”

In bringing his mind back to the conversation with Sam on the previous
night, Mr.Havens could not avoid a feeling of anxiety as he considered
the significant words of the young man and the information concerning
the sealed letter to be opened only in case of his death.He said
nothing of this to the boys, however, but continued the conversation as
if no apprehension dwelt in his mind regarding the safety of the lads.“If they only went out for a short ride by moonlight,” Glenn suggested,
in a moment, “they ought to have returned before daylight.”

“You can never tell what scrape that boy Jimmie will get into!” laughed
Ben.“He’s the hoodoo of the party and the mascot combined!Sandra travelled to the bathroom.He gets us
into all kinds of scrapes, but he usually makes good by getting us out
of the scrapes we get ourselves into.”

“Oh, they’ll be back directly,” the millionaire remarked, although deep
down in his consciousness was a growing belief that something serious
had happened to the lads.He, however, did his best to conceal the anxiety he felt from Ben and
his companion.Directly the three went down to breakfast together, and while the meal
was in progress a report came from the field where the machines had been
left that numerous telegrams addressed to Mr.“I left positive orders at the telegraph office,” he said, “to have all
my messages delivered here.Did one of the men out there receipt for
them?If so, perhaps one of you boys would better chase out and bring
them in,” he added turning to his companions at the table.The messenger replied that the messages had been receipted for, and that
he had offered to bring them in, but that the man in charge had refused
to turn them over to him.Havens replied, “Ben will go out to the field with you
and bring the messages in.And,” he added, as the messenger turned away,
“kindly notify me the instant the _Ann_ arrives.”

The messenger bowed and started away, accompanied by Ben.“I don’t understand about the telegrams having been sent to the field,”
Mr.Havens went on, as the two left the breakfast table and sauntered
into the lobby of the hotel.I also left instructions
with the clerk to send any messages to my room, no matter what time they
came.The instructions were very explicit.”

“Oh, you know how things get balled up in telegraph offices, and
messenger offices, and post-offices!” grinned Glenn.Mellen left the office early in the evening, and the man in charge got
lazy, or indifferent, or forgetful, and sent the messages to the wrong
place.”

While the two talked together, Mr.Mellen strolled into the hotel and
approached the corner of the lobby where they sat.“Good-morning!” he said taking a chair at their side.“Anything new
concerning the southern trip?”

“Not a thing!” replied Mr.“Sam went out in the _Ann_, for a
short run last night, and we’re only waiting for his return in order to
continue our journey.We expect to be away by noon.”

“I hope I shall hear from you often,” the manager said.“By the way,” the millionaire remarked, “what about the telegrams which
were sent out to the field last night?”

“No telegrams for you were sent out to the field last night!” was the
reply.“The telegrams directed to you are now at the hotel desk, unless
you have called for them.”

“But a messenger from the field reports that several telegrams for me
were received there.I don’t understand this at all.”

“They certainly did not come from our office!” was the reply.The millionaire arose hastily and approached the desk just as the clerk
was drawing a number of telegrams from his letter-box.“I left orders to have these taken to your room as soon as they
arrived,” the clerk explained, “but it seems that the night man chucked
them into your letter-box and forgot all about them.”

Mr.Havens took the telegrams into his hand and returned to the corner
of the lobby where he had been seated with Mellen and Glenn.“There seems to be a hoodoo in the air concerning my telegrams,” he said
with a smile, as he began opening the envelopes.“The messages which
came last night were not delivered to my room, but were left lying in my
letter-box until just now.In future, please instruct your messengers,”
he said to the manager, “to bring my telegrams directly to my room—that
is,” he added, “if I remain in town and any more telegrams are received
for me.”

“I’ll see that you get them directly they are received,” replied the
manager, impatiently.“If the hotel clerk objects to the boy going to
your room in the night-time, I’ll tell him to draw a gun on him!” he
added with a laugh.“Are the delayed telegrams important ones?”

“They are in code!” replied the millionaire.“I’m afraid I’ll have to go
to my room and get the code sheet.”

Mr.Havens disappeared up the elevator, and Mellen and Glenn talked of
aviation, and canoeing, and base-ball, and the dozen and one things in
which men and boys are interested, for half an hour.Then the
millionaire appeared in the lobby beckoning them toward the elevator.Mellen observed that the millionaire was greatly excited as he
motioned them into his suite of rooms and pointed to chairs.The
telegrams which he had received were lying open on a table near the
window and the code sheet and code translations were not far away.Before the millionaire could open the conversation Ben came bounding
into the room without knocking.His face was flushed with running, and
his breath came in short gasps.As he turned to close the door he shook
a clenched fist threateningly in the direction of the elevator.“That fool operator,” he declared, “left me standing in the corridor
below while he took one of the maids up to the ’steenth floor, and I ran
all the way up the stairs!I’ll get him good sometime!”

“Did you bring the telegrams?” asked the millionaire with a smile.“Say, look here!” Ben exclaimed dropping into a chair beside the table.“I’d like to know what’s coming off!”

Mr.Havens and his companions regarded the boy critically for a moment
and then the millionaire asked:

“What’s broke loose now?”

“Well,” Ben went on, “I went out to the field and the man there said
he’d get the telegrams in a minute.I stood around looking over the
_Louise_ and _Bertha_, and asking questions about what Sam said when he
went away on the _Ann_, until I got tired of waiting, then I chased up
to where this fellow stood and he said he’d go right off and get the
messages.”

“Why didn’t you hand him one?” laughed Glenn.“I wanted to,” Ben answered.“If I’d had him down in the old seventeenth
ward in the little old city of New York, I’d have set the bunch on him.Well, after a while, he poked away to the little shelter-tent the men
put up to sleep in last night and rustled around among the straw and
blankets and came back and said he couldn’t find the messages.”

The millionaire and the manager exchanged significant glances.“He told me,” Ben went on, “that the telegrams had been receipted for
and hidden under a blanket, to be delivered early in the morning.Said
he guessed some one must have stolen them, or mislaid them, but didn’t
seem to think the matter very important.”

The millionaire pointed to the open messages lying on the table.“How many telegrams came for me last night?” he asked.“Eight,” was the reply.“And there are eight here,” the millionaire went on.“And that means——”

“And that means,” the millionaire said, interrupting the manager, “that
the telegrams delivered on the field last night were either duplicates
of these cipher despatches or fake messages!”

“That’s just what I was going to remark,” said Mellen.“Has the _Ann_ returned?” asked Glenn of Ben.“Not yet,” was the reply.“Suppose we take one of the other machines and go up and look for her?”

“We’ll discuss that later on, boys,” the millionaire interrupted.“I would give a considerable to know,” the manager observed, in a
moment, “just who handled the messages which were left at the hotel
counter last night.And I’m going to do my best to find out!” he added.“That ought to be a perfectly simple matter,” suggested Mr.In Quito, no!” answered the manager.“A good many of
the natives who are in clerical positions here are crooked enough to
live in a corkscrew.They’ll do almost anything for money.”

“That’s the idea I had already formed of the people,” Ben cut in.“Besides,” the manager continued, “the chances are that the night clerk
tumbled down on a sofa somewhere in the lobby and slept most of the
night, leaving bell-boys and subordinates to run the hotel.”

“In that event,” Mr.Havens said, “the telegrams might have been handled
by half a dozen different people.”

“I’m afraid so!” replied the manager.“But the code!” suggested Ben.“They couldn’t read them!”

“But they might copy them for some one who could!” argued the manager.“And the copies might have been sent out to the field for the express
purpose of having them stolen,” he went on with an anxious look on his
face.“Are they very important?” he asked of the millionaire.“Very much so,” was the answer.“In fact, they are code copies of
private papers taken from deposit box A, showing the plans made in New
York for the South American aeroplane journey.”

“And showing stops and places to look through and all that?” asked Ben.“If that’s the kind of information the telegrams contained, I guess the
Redfern bunch in this vicinity are pretty well posted about this time!”

“I’m afraid so,” the millionaire replied gloomily.“Well,” he continued
in a moment, “we may as well get ready for our journey.I remember now,”
he said casually, “that Sam said last night that we ought to proceed on
our way without reference to him this morning.His idea then was that we
would come up with him somewhere between Quito and Lake Titicaca.So we
may as well be moving, and leave the investigation of the fraudulent or
copied telegrams to Mr.Mellen.”

“Funny thing for them to go chasing off in that way!” declared Ben.But no one guessed the future as the aeroplanes started southward!JIMMIE’S AWFUL HUNGER.“You say,” Sam asked, as Pedro crouched in the corner of the temple
where the old fountain basin had been, “that the Indians will never
actually attack the temple?”

“They never have,” replied Pedro, his teeth chattering in terror.“Since
I have been stationed here to feed and care for the wild animals in
captivity, I have known them to utter threats, but until to-night, so
far as I know, none of them ever placed a foot on the temple steps.”

“They did it to-night, all right!” Jimmie declared.“Felix could tell us about that if they had left enough of his frame to
utter a sound!” Carl put in.The boys were both weak from loss of blood, but their injuries were not
of a character to render them incapable of moving about.“What I’m afraid of,” Pedro went on, “is that they’ll surround the
temple and try to starve us into submission.”

“Jerusalem!” cried Jimmie.“That doesn’t sound good to me.I’m so hungry
now I could eat one of those jaguars raw!”

“But they are not fit to eat!” exclaimed Pedro.“They wanted to eat us, didn’t they?” demanded Jimmie.“I guess turn and
turn about is fair play!”

“Is there no secret way out of this place?” asked Sam, as the howls of
the savages became more imperative.There were rumors, he said, of secret
passages, but he had never been able to discover them.For his own part,
he did not believe they existed.“What sort of a hole is that den the jaguars came out of?” asked Jimmie.“It looks like it might extend a long way into the earth.”

“No,” answered Pedro, “it is only a subterranean room, used a thousand
years ago by the priests who performed at the broken altar you see
beyond the fountain.When the Gringoes came with their proposition to
hold wild animals here until they could be taken out to Caxamarca, and
thence down the railroad to the coast, they examined the walls of the
chamber closely, but found no opening by which the wild beasts might
escape.Therefore, I say, there is no passage leading from that
chamber.”

“From the looks of things,” Carl said, glancing out at the Indians, now
swarming by the score on the level plateau between the front of the
ruined temple and the lake, “we’ll have plenty of time to investigate
this old temple before we get out of it.”

“How are we going to investigate anything when we’re hungry?” demanded
Jimmie.“I can’t even think when I’m hungry.”

“Take away Jimmie’s appetite,” grinned Carl, “and there wouldn’t be
enough left of him to fill an ounce bottle!”

Pedro still sat in the basin of the old fountain, rocking his body back
and forth and wailing in a mixture of Spanish and English that he was
the most unfortunate man who ever drew the breath of life.“The animal industry,” he wailed, “is ruined.No more will the hunters
of wild beasts bring them to this place for safe keeping.No more will
the Indians assist in their capture.No more will the gold of the Gringo
kiss my palm.The ships came out of the sky and brought ruin.Right the
Indians are when they declare that the men who fly bring only disease
and disaster!” he continued, with an angry glance directed at the boys.“Cheer up!” laughed Jimmie.“Cheer up, old top, and remember that the
worst is yet to come!Say!” the boy added in a moment.“How would it do
to step out to the entrance and shoot a couple of those noisy savages?”

“I never learned how to shoot with an empty gun!” Carl said scornfully.“How many cartridges have you in your gun?” asked Jimmie of Sam.“About six,” was the reply.“I used two out of the clip on the jaguars
and two were fired on the ride to Quito.”

“And that’s all the ammunition we’ve got, is it?” demanded Carl.“That’s all we’ve got here!” answered Sam.“There’s plenty more at the
machine if the Indians haven’t taken possession of it.”

“Little good that does us!” growled Jimmie.“You couldn’t eat ’em!” laughed Carl.“But I’ll tell you what I could do!” insisted Jimmie.“If we had plenty
of ammunition, I could make a sneak outside and bring in game enough to
keep us eating for a month.”

“You know what always happens to you when you go out after something to
eat!” laughed Carl.“You always get into trouble!”

“But I always get back, don’t I?” demanded Jimmie.“I guess the time
will come, before long, when you’ll be glad to see me starting out for
some kind of game!We’re not going to remain quietly here and starve.”

“That looks like going out hunting,” said Sam, pointing to the savages
outside.“Those fellows might have something to say about it.”

It was now broad daylight.The early sunshine lay like a mist of gold
over the tops of the distant peaks, and birds were cutting the clear,
sweet air with their sharp cries.Many of the Indians outside being sun
worshipers, the boys saw them still on their knees with hands and face
uplifted to the sunrise.The air in the valley was growing warmer every minute.By noon, when the
sun would look almost vertically down, it promised to be very hot, as
the mountains shut out the breeze.“I don’t think it will be necessary to look for game,” Sam went on in a
moment, “for the reason that the _Louise_ and _Bertha_, ought to be here
soon after sunset.It may possibly take them a little longer than that
to cover the distance, as they do not sail so fast as the _Ann_, but at
least they should be here before to-morrow morning.Then you’ll see the
savages scatter!” he added with a smile.“And you’ll see Jimmie eat,
too!”

“Don’t mention it!” cried the boy.“Yes,” Carl suggested, “but won’t Mr.Havens and the boys remain in
Quito two or three days waiting for us to come back?”

“I think not,” was the reply.Havens to pick us up
somewhere between Quito and Lake Titicaca in case we did not return
before morning.I have an idea that they’ll start out sometime during
the forenoon—say ten o’clock—and reach this point, at the latest, by
midnight.”

“They can’t begin to sail as fast as we did!” suggested Carl.“If they make forty miles an hour,” Sam explained, “and stop only three
or four times to rest, they can get here before midnight, all right!”

“Gee!That’s a long time to go without eating!” cried Jimmie.“And, even
at that,” he went on in a moment, “they may shoot over us like a couple
of express trains, and go on south without ever knowing we are here.”

Sam turned to Pedro with an inquiring look on his face.“Where is Miguel?” he asked.“Gone!” he said.“Well, then,” Sam went on, “what about the red and blue lights?Can you
stage that little drama for us to-night?”

“What is stage?” demanded Pedro.“I don’t know what you mean.”

“Chestnuts!” exclaimed Jimmie impatiently.“He wants to know if you can
work the lights as Miguel did.He wants to know if you can keep the
lights burning to-night in order to attract the attention of people who
are coming to drive the Indians away.Do you get it?”

Pedro’s face brightened perceptibly.“Coming to drive the Indians away?” he repeated.“Yes, I can burn the
lights.They shall burn from the going down of the sun.Also,” he added
with a hopeful expression on his face, “the Indians may see the lights
and disappear again in the forest.”

“Yes, they will!” laughed Carl.“Let him think so if he wants to,” cautioned Jimmie.“He’ll take better
care of the lights if he thinks that will in any way add to the
possibility of release.But midnight!” the boy went on.“Think of all
that time without anything to eat!Say,” he whispered to Carl, in a soft
aside, “if you can get Sam asleep sometime during the day and get the
gun away from him, I’m going to make a break for the tall timber and
bring in a deer, or a brace of rabbits, or something of that kind.There’s plenty of cooking utensils in that other chamber and plenty of
dishes, so we can have a mountain stew with very little trouble if we
can only get the meat to put into it.”

“And there’s the stew they left,” suggested Carl.“Not for me!” Jimmie answered.“I’m not going to take any chances on
being poisoned.I’d rather build a fire on that dizzy old hearth they
used, and broil a steak from one of the jaguars than eat that stew—or
anything they left for that matter.”

“I don’t believe you can get out into the hills,” objected Carl.“I can try,” Jimmie suggested, “if I can only get that gun away from
Sam.Look here,” he went
on, “suppose I fix up in the long, flowing robe, and dig up the wigs and
things Miguel must have worn, and walk in a dignified manner between the
ranks of the Indians?What do you know about that?”

“That would probably be all right,” Carl answered, “until you began
shooting game, and then they’d just naturally put you into a stew.They
know very well that gods in white robes don’t have to kill game in order
to sustain life.”

“Oh, why didn’t you let me dream?” demanded Jimmie.“I was just figuring
how I could get about four gallons of stew.”

Abandoning the cherished hope of getting out into the forest for the
time being, Jimmie now approached Pedro and began asking him questions
concerning his own stock of provisions.“According to your own account,” the boy said, “you’ve been living here
right along for some weeks, taking care of the wild animals as the
collectors brought them in.Now you must have plenty of provisions
stored away somewhere.Dig ’em up!”

Pedro declared that there were no provisions at all about the place,
adding that everything had been consumed the previous day except the
remnants left in the living chamber.He said, however, that he expected
provisions to be brought in by his two companions within two days.In
the meantime, he had arranged on such wild game as he could bring down.Abandoning another hope, Jimmie passed through the narrow passage and
into the chamber where he had come so near to death.The round eye of
his searchlight revealed the jaguars still lying on the marble floor.The roof above this chamber appeared to be comparatively whole, yet here
and there the warm sunlight streamed in through minute crevices between
the slabs.The boy crossed the chamber, not without a little shiver of
terror at the thought of the dangers he had met there, and peered into
the mouth of the den from which the wild beasts had made their
appearance.The odor emanating from the room beyond was not at all pleasant, but,
resolving to see for himself what the place contained, he pushed on and
soon stood in a subterranean room hardly more than twelve feet square.There were six steps leading down into the chamber, and these seemed to
the boy to be worn and polished smooth as if from long use.“It’s a bet!” the lad chuckled, as he crawled through the opening and
slid cautiously down the steps, “that this stairway was used a hundred
times a day while the old priests lived here.In that case,” he argued,
“there must have been some reason for constant use of the room.And all
this,” he went on, “leads me to the conclusion that the old fellows had
a secret way out of the temple and that it opens from this very room.”

While the boy stood at the bottom of the steps flashing his light around
the confined space, Carl’s figure appeared into the opening above.“What have you found?” the latter asked.“Nothing yet but bad air and stone walls!” replied Jimmie.“What are you looking for?” was the next question.“A way out!” answered Jimmie.Carl came down the steps and the two boys examined the chamber carefully
for some evidence of a hidden exit.They were about to abandon the quest
when Jimmie struck the handle of his pocket knife, which he had been
using in the investigation, against a stone which gave back a hollow
sound.“Here you are!” Jimmie cried.“There’s a hole back of that stone.If we
can only get it out, we’ll kiss the savages ‘good-bye’ and get back to
the _Ann_ in quick time.”

The boys pried and pounded at the stone until at last it gave way under
pressure and fell backward with a crash.“There!” Jimmie shouted.“I knew it!”




                              CHAPTER XIX.“Yes, you knew it all right!” Carl exclaimed, as the boy stood looking
into the dark passage revealed by the falling of the stone.“You always
know a lot of things just after they occur!”

“Anyway,” Jimmie answered with a grin, “I knew there ought to be a
secret passage somewhere.Where do you suppose the old thing leads to?”

“For one thing,” Carl answered, “it probably leads under the great stone
slab in front of the entrance, because when Miguel, the foxy boy with
the red and blue lights, disappeared he went down into the ground right
there.And I’ll bet,” he went on, “that it runs out to the rocky
elevation to the west and connects with the forest near where the
machine is.”

“Those old chaps must have burrowed like rabbits!” declared Jimmie.“Don’t you think the men who operated the temples ever carried the
stones which weigh a hundred tons or cut passages through solid rocks!”
Carl declared.“They worked the Indians for all that part of the game,
just as the Egyptians worked the Hebrews on the lower Nile.”

“Well, the only way to find out where it goes,” Jimmie suggested, “is to
follow it.We can’t stand here and guess it out.”

“Indeed we can’t,” agreed Carl.“I’ll go on down the incline and you
follow along.Looks pretty slippery here, so we’d better keep close
together.I don’t suppose we can put the stone back,” he added with a
parting glance into the chamber.“What would we want to put it back for?” demanded Jimmie.“How do we know who will be snooping around here while we are under
ground?” Carl asked impatiently.“If some one should come along here and
stuff the stone back into the hole and we shouldn’t be able to find any
exit, we’d be in a nice little tight box, wouldn’t we?”

“Well, if we can’t lift it back into the hole,” Jimmie argued, “I guess
we can push it along in front of us.This incline seems slippery enough
to pass it along like a sleighload of girls on a snowy hill.”

The boys concentrated their strength, which was not very great at that
time because of their wounds, on the stone and were soon gratified to
see it sliding swiftly out of sight along a dark incline.“I wonder what Sam will say?” asked Jimmie.“He won’t know anything about it!” Carl declared.“Oh, yes, he will!” asserted Jimmie, “he’ll be looking around before
we’ve been absent ten minutes.Perhaps we’d ought to go back and tell
him what we’ve found, and what we’re going to do.”

“Then he’d want to go with us,” Carl suggested, “and that would leave
the savages to sneak into the temple whenever they find the nerve to do
so, and also leave Pedro to work any old tricks he saw fit.Besides,”
the boy went on, “we won’t be gone more than ten minutes.”

“You’re always making a sneak on somebody,” grinned Jimmie.“You had to
go and climb up on our machine last night, and get mixed up in all this
trouble.You’re always doing something of the kind!”

“I guess you’re glad I stuck around, ain’t you?” laughed Carl.“You’d
’a’ had a nice time in that den of lions without my gun, eh?”

“Well, get a move on!” laughed Jimmie.“And hang on to the walls as you
go ahead.This floor looks like one of the chutes under the newspaper
offices in New York.And hold your light straight ahead.”

The incline extended only a few yards.Arrived at the bottom, the boys
estimated that the top of the six-foot passage was not more than a
couple of yards from the surface of the earth.Much to their surprise
they found the air in the place remarkably pure.At the bottom of the incline the passage turned away to the north for a
few paces, then struck out west.From this angle the boys could see
little fingers of light which probably penetrated into the passage from
crevices in the steps of the temple.Gaining the front of the old structure, they saw that one of the stones
just below the steps was hung on a rude though perfectly reliable hinge,
and that a steel rod attached to it operated a mechanism which placed
the slab entirely under the control of any one mounting the steps, if
acquainted with the secret of the door.“Here’s where Miguel drops down!” laughed Jimmie, his searchlight prying
into the details of the cunning device.“Well, well!” he went on, “those
old Incas certainly took good care of their precious carcasses.It’s a
pity they couldn’t have coaxed the Spaniards into some of their secret
passages and then sealed them up!”

The passage ran on to the west after passing the temple for some
distance, and then turned abruptly to the north.The lights showed a
long, tunnel-like place, apparently cut in the solid rock.“I wonder if this tunnel leads to the woods we saw at the west of the
cove,” Carl asked.“I hope it does!” he added, “for then we can get to
the machine and get something to eat and get some ammunition and,” he
added hopefully, “we may be able to get away in the jolly old _Ann_ and
leave the Indians watching an empty temple.”

“Do you suppose Miguel came into this passage when he dropped out of
sight in front of the temple?” asked Jimmie.“Of course, he did!”

“Then where did he go?”

“Why, back into the temple.”

“Through the den of lions?I guess not!”

“That’s a fact!” exclaimed Carl.“He wouldn’t go through the den of
lions, would he?And he never could have traveled this passage to the
end and hiked back over the country in time to drop the gate and lift
the bars in front of the den!It was Miguel that did that, wasn’t it?”
the boy added, turning enquiringly to his chum.“It must have been for
there was no one else there.”

“What are you getting at?” asked Jimmie.“There must be a passage leading from this one
back into the temple on the west side.It may enter the room where the
bunks are, or it may come into the corridor back by the fountain, but
there’s one somewhere all right.”

“You’re the wise little boy!” laughed Jimmie.“Let’s go and see.”

The boys returned to the trap-like slab in front of the temple and from
that point examined every inch of the south wall for a long distance.Finally a push on a stone brought forth a grinding noise, and then a
passage similar to that discovered in the den was revealed.“There you are!” said Carl.“There’s the passage that leads to the west
side of the temple.Shall we go on in and give Sam and Pedro the merry
ha, ha?Mighty funny,” he added, without waiting for his question to be
answered, “that all these trap doors are so easily found and work so
readily.They’re just about as easy to manipulate as one of the foolish
houses we see on the stage.It’s no trick to operate them at all.”

“Well,” Jimmie argued, “these passages and traps are doubtless used
every day by a man who don’t take any precautions about keeping them
hidden.I presume Miguel is the only person here who knows of their
existence, and he just slams around in them sort of careless-like.”

“That’s the answer!” replied Carl.“Let’s chase along and see where the
tunnel ends, and then get back to Sam.He may be crying his eyes out for
our polite society right now!”

The boys followed the tunnel for what seemed to them to be a long
distance.At length they came to a turn from which a mist of daylight
could be seen.In five minutes more they stood looking out into the
forest.The entrance to the passage was concealed only by carelessly heaped-up
rocks, between the interstices of which grew creeping vines and
brambles.Looking from the forest side, the place resembled a heap of
rocks, probably inhabited by all manner of creeping things and covered
over with vines.As the boys peered out between the vines, Jimmie nudged his chum in the
side and whispered as he pointed straight out:

“There’s the _Ann_.”

“But that isn’t where we left her!” argued Carl.“Well, it’s the _Ann_, just the same, isn’t it?”

“I suppose so,” was the reply.“I presume,” the boy went on, “the
Indians moved it to the place where it now is.”

“Don’t you ever think they did!” answered Jimmie.“The Indians wouldn’t
touch it with a pair of tongs!Felix and Pedro probably moved it, the
idea being to hide it from view.”

“I guess that’s right!” Carl agreed.“I’m going out,” he continued, in a
moment, “and see if I can find any savages.I won’t be gone very long.”

“What you mean,” Jimmie grinned, “is that you’re going out to see if you
won’t find any savages.That is,” he went on, “you think of going out.As a matter of fact, I’m the one that’s going out, because the wild
beasts chewed you up proper, and they didn’t hurt me at all.”

The boy crowded past Carl as he spoke and dodged out into the forest.Carl waited impatiently for ten minutes and was on the point of going in
quest of the boy when Jimmie came leisurely up to the curtain of vines
which hid the passage and looked in with a grin on his freckled face.“Come on out,” he said, “the air is fine!”

“Any savages?” asked Carl.“Not a savage!”

“Anything to eat?” demanded the boy.“Bales of it!” answered Jimmie.“The savages never touched the _Ann_.”

Carl crept out of the opening and made his way to where Jimmie sat flat
on the bole of a fallen tree eating ham sandwiches.“Are there any left?” he asked.“Half a bushel!”

“Then perhaps the others stand some chance of getting one or two.”

“There’s more than we can all eat before to-morrow morning,” Jimmie
answered.“And if the relief train doesn’t come before that time we’ll
mount the _Ann_ and glide away.”

While the boys sat eating their sandwiches and enjoying the clear sweet
air of the morning, there came an especially savage chorus of yells from
the direction of the temple.“The Indians seem to be a mighty enthusiastic race!” declared Jimmie.“Suppose we go to the _Ann_, grab the provisions, and go back to the
temple just to see what they’re amusing themselves with now!”

This suggestion meeting with favor, the boys proceeded to the aeroplane
which was only a short distance away and loaded themselves down with
provisions and cartridges.During their journey they saw not the
slightest indications of the Indians.It was quite evident that they
were all occupied with the _siege_ of the temple.On leaving the entrance, the boys restored the vines so far as possible
to their original condition and filled their automatics with cartridges.“No one will ever catch me without cartridges again,” Carl declared as
he patted his weapon.“The idea of getting into a den of lions with only
four shots between us and destruction!”

“Well, hurry up!” cried Jimmie.“I know from the accent the Indians
placed on the last syllable that there’s something doing at the temple.And Sam, you know, hasn’t got many cartridges.”

“I wouldn’t run very fast,” declared Carl, “if I knew that the Indians
had captured Miguel.That’s the ruffian who shut us into the den of
lions!”

When the boys came to the passage opening from the tunnel on the west of
the temple, they turned into it and proceeded a few yards south.Here
they found an opening which led undoubtedly directly to the rear of the
corridor in the vicinity of the fountain.The stone which had in past years concealed the mouth of this passage
had evidently not been used for a long time, for it lay broken into
fragments on the stone floor.When the boys came to the end of the passage, they saw by the slices of
light which lay between the stones that they were facing the corridor
from the rear.They knew well enough that somewhere in that vicinity was
a door opening into the temple, but for some moments they could not find
it.At last Jimmie, prying into a crack with his knife, struck a piece
of metal and the stone dropped backward.He was about to crawl through into the corridor when Carl caught him by
one leg and held him back.It took the lad only an instant to comprehend
what was going on.A horde of savages was crowding up the steps and into
the temple itself, and Sam stood in the middle of the corridor with a
smoking weapon in his hand.As the boys looked he threw the automatic into the faces of the
onrushing crowd as if its usefulness had departed.THE SAVAGES MAKE MORE TROUBLE.“Pedro said the savages wouldn’t dare enter the temple!” declared Jimmie
as he drew back.Without stopping to comment on the situation, Carl called out:

“Drop, Sam, drop!”

The young man whirled about, saw the opening in the rear wall, saw the
brown barrels of the automatics, and instantly dropped to the floor.The
Indians advanced no farther, for in less time than it takes to say the
words a rain of bullets struck into their ranks.Half a dozen fell to
the floor and the others retreated, sneaking back in a minute, however,
to remove the bodies of their dead and wounded companions.The boys did not fire while this duty was being performed.In a minute from the time of the opening of the stone panel in the wall
there was not a savage in sight.Only for the smears of blood on the
white marble floor, and on the steps outside, no one would have imagined
that so great a tragedy had been enacted there only a few moments
before.Sam rose slowly to his feet and stood by the boys as they
crawled out of the narrow opening just above the basin of the fountain.“I’m glad to see you, kids,” he said, in a matter-of-fact tone, although
his face was white to the lips.“You came just in time!”

“We usually do arrive on schedule,” Jimmie grinned, trying to make as
little as possible of the rescue.“You did this time at any rate!” replied Sam.“But, look here,” he went
on, glancing at the automatics in their hands, “I thought the ammunition
was all used up in the den of lions.”

“We got some more!” laughed Carl.“More—where?”

“At the _Ann_!”

Sam leaned back against the wall, a picture of amazement.“You haven’t been out to the _Ann_ have you?” he asked.For reply Jimmie drew a great package of sandwiches and another of
cartridges out of the opening in the wall.“We haven’t, eh?” he laughed.“That certainly looks like it!” declared Sam.The boys briefly related the story of their visit to the aeroplane while
Sam busied himself with the sandwiches, and then they loaded the three
automatics and distributed the remaining clips about their persons.“And now what?” asked Carl, after the completion of the recital.“Are we going to take the _Ann_ and slip away from these worshipers of
the Sun?” asked Jimmie.“We can do it all right!”

“I don’t know about that,” argued Sam.“You drove them away from the
temple, and the chances are that they will return to the forest and will
remain there until they get the courage to make another attack on us.”

“It won’t take long to go and find out whether they are in the forest or
not!” Carl declared.“Perhaps,” Sam suggested, “we’d better wait here for the others to come
up.They ought to be here to-night.”

“If it’s a sure thing that we can let them know where we are,” Carl
agreed, “that might be all right.”

“What’s the matter with the red and blue lights?” asked Jimmie.“By the way,” Carl inquired looking about the place, “where is Pedro?”

“He took to his heels when the savages made the rush.”

“Which way did he go?” asked Jimmie.“I think he went in the direction of that little menagerie you boys
found last night!” replied Sam.“Then I’ll bet he knows where the tunnel is!” Carl shouted, dashing
away.“I’ll bet he’s lit out for the purpose of bringing a lot of his
conspirators in here to do us up!”

Jimmie followed his chum, and the two searched the entire system of
tunnels known to them without discovering any trace of the missing man.“That’s a nice thing!” Jimmie declared.“We probably passed him
somewhere on our way back to the temple.By this time he’s off over the
hills, making signals for some one to come and help put us to the bad.”

“I’m afraid you’re right!” replied Sam.The boys ate their sandwiches and discussed plans and prospects,
listening in the meantime for indications of the two missing men.Several times they thought they heard soft footsteps in the apartments
opening from the corridor, but in each case investigation revealed
nothing.It was a long afternoon, but finally the sun disappeared over the ridge
to the west of the little lake and the boys began considering the
advisability of making ready to signal to the _Louise_ and _Bertha_.“They will surely be here?” said Carl hopefully.“I am certain of it!” answered Sam.“Then we’d better be getting something on top of the temple to make a
light,” advised Jimmie.“If I had Miguel by the neck, he’d bring out his
red and blue lights before he took another breath!” he added.“Perhaps we can find the lights,” suggested Sam.This idea being very much to the point, the boys scattered themselves
over the three apartments and searched diligently for the lamps or
candles which had been used by Miguel on the previous night.“Nothing doing!” Jimmie declared, returning to the corridor.“Nothing doing!” echoed Carl, coming in from the other way.Sam joined the group in a moment looking very much discouraged.“Boys,” he said, “I’ve been broke in nearly all the large cities on both
Western continents.I’ve been kicked out of lodging houses, and I’ve
walked hundreds of miles with broken shoes and little to eat, but of all
the everlasting, consarned, ridiculous, propositions I ever butted up
against, this is the worst!”

The boys chuckled softly but made no reply.“We know well enough,” he went on, “that there are rockets, or lamps, or
torches, or candles, enough hidden about this place to signal all the
transcontinental trains in the world but we can’t find enough of them to
flag a hand-car on an uphill grade!”

“What’s the matter with the searchlights?” asked Jimmie.“Not sufficiently strong!”

Without any explanation, Jimmie darted away from the group and began a
tour of the temple.First he walked along the walls of the corridor then
darted to the other room, then out on the steps in front.“His trouble has turned his head!” jeered Carl.“Look here, you fellows!” Jimmie answered darting back into the temple.“There’s a great white rock on the cliff back of the temple.It looks
like one of these memorial stones aldermen put their names on when they
build a city hall.All we have to do to signal the aeroplanes is to put
red caps over our searchlights and turn them on that cliff.They will
make a circle of fire there that will look like the round, red face of a
harvest moon.”

“That’s right!” agreed Carl.“A very good idea!” Sam added.“I’ve been trying to find a way to get up on the roof,” Jimmie
continued, “but can’t find one.You see,” he went on, “we can operate
our searchlights better from the top of the temple.”

“We’ll have to find a way to get up there!” Sam insisted.“Unless we can make the illumination on the cliff through the hole in
the roof,” Jimmie proposed.“And that’s another good proposition!” Sam agreed.“And so,” laughed Carl, “the stage is set and the actors are in the
wings, and I’m going to crawl into one of the bunks in the west room and
go to sleep.”

“You go, too, Jimmie,” Sam advised.“I’ll wake you up if anything
happens.I can get my rest later on.”

The boys were not slow in accepting the invitation, and in a very short
time were sound asleep.It would be time for the _Bertha_ and _Louise_
to show directly, and so Sam placed the red caps over the lamps of two
of the electrics and sat where he could throw the rays through the break
in the roof.Curious to know if the result was exactly as he
anticipated, he finally propped one of the lights in position on the
floor and went out to the entrance to look up at the rock.As he stepped out on the smooth slab of marble in front of the entrance
something whizzed within an inch of his head and dropped with a crash on
the stones below.Without stopping to investigate the young man dodged
into the temple again and looked out.“Now, I wonder,” he thought, as he lifted the electric so that its red
light struck the smooth face of the rock above more directly, “whether
that kind remembrance was from our esteemed friends Pedro and Miguel, or
whether it came from the Indians.”

He listened intently for a moment and presently heard the sound of
shuffling feet from above.It was apparent that the remainder of the
evening was not to be as peaceful and quiet as he had anticipated.Realizing that the hostile person or persons on the roof might in a
moment begin dropping their rocks down to the floor of the corridor, he
passed hastily into the west chamber and stood by the doorway looking
out.This interference, he understood, would effectually prevent any
illumination of the white rock calculated to serve as a signal to Mr.Some other means of attracting their attention must
be devised.The corridor lay dim in the faint light of the stars which
came through the break in the roof, and he threw the light of his
electric up and down the stone floor in order to make sure that the
enemy was not actually creeping into the temple from the entrance.While he stood flashing the light about he almost uttered an exclamation
of fright as a grating sound in the vicinity of the fountain came to his
ears.He cast his light in that direction and saw the stone which had
been replaced by the boys retreating slowly into the wall.Then a dusky face looked out of the opening, and, without considering
the ultimate consequences of his act, he fired full at the threatening
eyes which were searching the interior.There was a groan, a fall, and
the stone moved back to its former position.He turned to awaken Jimmie and Carl but the sound of the shot had
already accomplished that, and the boys were standing in the middle of
the floor with automatics in their hands.“What’s coming off?” asked Jimmie.“Was that thunder?” demanded Carl.“Thunder don’t smell like that,” suggested Jimmie, sniffing at the
powder smoke.“I guess Sam has been having company.”

“Right you are,” said Sam, doing his best to keep the note of
apprehension out of his voice.“Our friends are now occupying the tunnel
you told me about.At least one of them was, not long ago.”

“Now, see here,” Jimmie broke in, “I’m getting tired of this
hide-and-seek business around this blooming old ruin.Daniel travelled to the garden.We came out to
sail in the air, and not crawl like snakes through underground
passages.”

“What’s the answer?” asked Carl.“According to Sam’s story,” Jimmie went on, “we won’t be able to signal
our friends with our red lights to-night.In that case, they’re likely
to fly by, on their way south, without discovering our whereabouts.”

“And so you want to go back to the machine, eh?” Sam questioned.“That’s the idea,” answered Jimmie.“I want to get up into God’s free
air again, where I can see the stars, and the snow caps on the
mountains!John moved to the hallway.I want to build a roaring old fire on some shelf of rock and
build up a stew big enough for a regiment of state troops!Then I want
to roll up in a blanket and sleep for about a week.”

“That’s me, too!” declared Carl.“It may not be possible to get to the machine,” suggested Sam.“I’ll let you know in about five minutes!” exclaimed Jimmie darting
recklessly across the corridor and into the chamber which had by mutual
consent been named the den of lions.Sam called to him to return but the boy paid no heed to the warning.“Come on!” Carl urged the next moment.“We’ve got to go with him.”

Sam seized a package of sandwiches which lay on the roughly constructed
table and darted with the boy across the corridor, through the east
chamber, into the subterranean one, and passed into the tunnel, the
entrance to which, it will be remembered, had been left open.Some distance down in the darkness, probably where the passage swung
away to the north, they saw a glimmer of light.Directly they heard
Jimmie’s voice calling softly through the odorous darkness.“Come on!” he whispered.“We may as well get out to the woods and see
what’s doing there.”

The two half-walked, half-stumbled, down the slippery incline and joined
Jimmie at the bottom.“Now we want to look out,” the boy said as they came to the angle which
faced the west.“There may be some of those rude persons in the tunnel
ahead of us.”

Not caring to proceed in the darkness, they kept their lights burning as
they advanced.When they came to the cross passage which led to the rear
of the corridor they listened for an instant and thought they detected a
low murmur of voices in the distance.“Let’s investigate!” suggested Carl.“Investigate nothing!” replied Jimmie.“Let’s move for the machine and
the level of the stars.If the savages are there, we’ll chase ’em out.”

But the savages were not there.When the three came to the curtain of
vines which concealed the entrance to the passage, the forest seemed as
still as it had been on the day of creation.They moved out of the tangle and crept forward to the aeroplane, their
lights now out entirely, and their automatics ready for use.They were
soon at the side of the machine.After as good an examination as could possibly be made in the
semi-darkness, Sam declared that nothing had been molested, and that the
_Ann_ was, apparently, in as good condition for flight as it had been at
the moment of landing.“Why didn’t we do this in the afternoon, while the <DW65>s were out of
sight?” asked Carl in disgust.“Sam said we couldn’t!” grinned Jimmie.“Anyhow,” Sam declared, “we’re going to see right now whether we can or
not.We’ll have to push the old bird out into a clear place first,
though!”

Here the talk was interrupted by a chorus of savage shouts.The _Louise_ and the _Bertha_ left the field near Quito amid the shouts
of a vast crowd which gathered in the early part of the day.As the
aeroplanes sailed majestically into the air, Mr.Havens saw Mellen
sitting in a motor-car waving a white handkerchief in farewell.The millionaire and Ben rode in the _Louise_, while Glenn followed in
the _Bertha_.For a few moments the clatter of the motors precluded
conversation, then the aviator slowed down a trifle and asked his
companion:

“Was anything seen of Doran to-day?”

Ben shook his head.“I half believe,” Mr.Havens continued, “that the code despatches were
stolen by him last night from the hotel, copied, and the copies sent out
to the field to be delivered to some one of the conspirators.”

“But no one could translate them,” suggested Ben.“I’m not so sure of that,” was the reply.“The code is by no means a new
one.I have often reproached myself for not changing it after Redfern
disappeared with the money.”

“If it’s the same code you used then,” Ben argued, “you may be sure
there is some one of the conspirators who can do the translating.Why,”
he went on, “there must be.They wouldn’t have stolen code despatches
unless they knew how to read them.”

“In that case,” smiled Mr.Havens grimly, “they have actually secured
the information they desire from the men they are fighting.”

“Were the messages important?” asked Ben.“Duplicates of papers contained in deposit box A,” was the answer.“What can they learn from them?”

“The route mapped out for our journey south!” was the reply.“Including
the names of places where Redfern may be in hiding.”

“And so they’ll be apt to guard all those points?” asked Ben.As the reader will understand, one point, that at the ruined temple, had
been very well guarded indeed!“Yes,” replied the millionaire.“They are likely to look out for us at
all the places mentioned in the code despatches.”

Ben gave a low whistle of dismay, and directly the motors were pushing
the machine forward at the rate of fifty or more miles an hour.The aviators stopped on a level plateau about the middle of the
afternoon to prepare dinner, and then swept on again.At nightfall, they
were in the vicinity of a summit which lifted like a cone from a
circular shelf of rock which almost completely surrounded it.The millionaire aviator encircled the peak and finally decided that a
landing might be made with safety.He dropped the _Louise_ down very
slowly and was gratified to find that there would be little difficulty
in finding a resting-place below.As soon as he landed he turned his
eyes toward the _Bertha_, still circling above.The machine seemed to be coming steadily toward the shelf, but as he
looked the great planes wavered and tipped, and when the aeroplane
actually landed it was with a crash which threw Glenn from his seat and
brought about a great rattling of machinery.Glenn arose from the rock wiping blood from his face.“I’m afraid that’s the end of the _Bertha_!” he exclaimed.“I hope not,” replied Ben.“I think a lot of that old machine.”

Mr.Havens, after learning that Glenn’s injuries were not serious,
hastened over to the aeroplane and began a careful examination of the
motors.“I think,” he said in a serious tone, “that the threads on one of the
turn-buckles on one of the guy wires stripped so as to render the planes
unmanageable.”

“They were unmanageable, all right!” Glenn said, rubbing the sore spots
on his knees.“Can we fix it right here?” Ben asked.“That depends on whether we have a supply of turn-buckles,” replied
Havens.“They certainly ought to be in stock somewhere.”

“Glory be!” cried Glenn.“We sure have plenty of turn-buckles!”

“Get one out, then,” the millionaire directed, “and we’ll see what we
can do with it.”

The boys hunted everywhere in the tool boxes of both machines without
finding what they sought.“I know where they are!” said Glenn glumly in a moment.“Then get one out!” advised Ben.“They’re on the _Ann_!” explained Glenn.“If you remember we put the
spark plugs and a few other things of that sort on the _Louise_ and put
the turn-buckles on the _Ann_.”

“Now, you wait a minute,” Mr.“Perhaps I can use the old
turn-buckle on the sharp threads of the _Louise_ and put the one which
belongs there in the place of this worn one.Sometimes a transfer of
that kind can be made to work in emergencies.”

“That’ll be fine!” exclaimed Ben.I’ll hold the light while you take the buckle off the _Louise_.”

Ben turned his flashlight on the guy wires and the aviator began turning
the buckle.The wires were very taut, and when the last thread was
reached one of them sprang away so violently that the turn-buckle was
knocked from his hand.The next moment they heard it rattling in the
gorge below.Havens sat flat down on the shelf of rocks and looked at the parted
wires hopelessly.“Well,” the millionaire said presently, “I guess we’re in for a good
long cold night up in the sky.”

“Did you ever see such rotten luck?” demanded Glenn.“Cheer up!” cried Ben.“We’ll find some way out of it.”

“Have you got any fish-lines, boys?” asked the aviator.“You bet I have!” replied Ben.“You wouldn’t catch me off on a
flying-machine trip without a fish-line.We’re going to have some fish
before we get off the Andes.”

“Well,” said Mr.Havens, “pass it over and I’ll see if I can fasten
these wires together with strong cord and tighten them up with a
twister.”

“Why not?” asked Ben.“I’ve seen things of that kind done often enough!” declared Glenn.“And, besides,” Glenn added, “we may be able to use the worn turn-buckle
on the _Louise_ and go after repairs, leaving the _Bertha_ here.”

“I don’t like to do that!” objected the millionaire aviator.“I believe
we can arrange to take both machines out with us.”

But it was not such an easy matter fastening the cords and arranging the
twister as had been anticipated.They all worked over the problem for an
hour or more without finding any method of preventing the fish-line from
breaking when the twister was applied.When drawn so tight that it was
impossible to slip, the eyes showed a disposition to cut the strands.At last they decided that it would be unsafe to use the _Bertha_ in that
condition and turned to the _Louise_ with the worn turn-buckle.To their dismay they found that the threads were worn so that it would
be unsafe to trust themselves in the air with any temporary expedient
which might be used to strengthen the connection.“This brings us back to the old proposition of a night under the
clouds!” the millionaire said.“Or above the clouds,” Ben added, “if this fog keeps coming.”

Leaving the millionaire still studying over the needed repairs, Ben and
his chum followed the circular cliff for some distance until they came
to the east side of the cone.They stood looking over the landscape for
a moment and then turned back to the machines silently and with grave
faces.“Have you got plenty of ammunition, Mr.“I think so,” was the reply.“That’s good!” answered Ben.“Why the question?” Mr.Havens asked, with a surprised look.“Because,” Ben replied, “there’s a lot of Peruvian miners down on a
lower shelf of this cone and they’re drunk.”

“Well, they can’t get up here, can they?” asked Mr.“They’re making a stab at it!” answered Ben.“There seems to be a strike or something of that sort on down there,”
Glenn explained, “and it looks as if the fellows wanted to get up here
and take possession of the aeroplanes.”

“Perhaps we can talk them out of it!” smiled the millionaire.“I’m afraid we’ll have to do something more than talk,” Glenn answered.The three now went to the east side of the cone and looked down.There
was a gully leading from the shelf to a plateau below.At some past time
this gully had evidently been the bed of a running mountain stream.On
the plateau below were excavations and various pieces of crude mining
machinery.Between the excavations and the bottom of the gully at least a hundred
men were racing for the cut, which seemed to offer an easy mode of
access to the shelf where the flying machines lay.“We’ll have to stand here and keep them back!” Mr.“I don’t believe we can keep them back,” Glenn answered, “for there may
be other places similar to this.Those miners can almost climb a
vertical wall.”

The voices of the miners could now be distinctly heard, and at least
three or four of them were speaking in English.His words were greeted by a howl of derision.Havens said in a moment, “one of you would better go back
to the machines and see if there is danger from another point.”

Ben started away, but paused and took his friend by the arm.“What do you think of that?” he demanded, pointing away to the south.Havens grasped the boy’s hand and in the excitement of the moment
shook it vigorously.“I think,” he answered, “that those are the lights of the _Ann_, and
that we’ll soon have all the turn-buckles we want.”

The prophesy was soon verified.The _Ann_ landed with very little
difficulty, and the boys were soon out on the ledge.The miners drew back grumbling and soon disappeared in the excavations
below.As may well be imagined the greetings which passed between the two
parties were frank and heartfelt.The repair box of the _Ann_ was well
supplied with turn-buckles, and in a very short time the three machines
were on their way to the south.Havens and Sam sat together on the _Ann_, and during the long hours
after midnight while the machines purred softly through the chill air of
the mountains, the millionaire was informed of all that had taken place
at the ruined temple.“And that ruined temple you have described,” Mr.Havens said, with a
smile, “is in reality one of the underground stations on the way to the
Mystery of the Andes at Lake Titicaca.”

“And why?” asked Sam, “do they call any special point down there the
mystery of the Andes?There are plenty of mysteries in these tough old
mountain ranges!” he added with a smile.“But this is a particularly mysterious kind of a mystery,” replied Mr.“I’ll tell you all about it some other time.”




                             CHAPTER XXII.A great camp-fire blazed in one of the numerous valleys which nestle in
the Andes to the east of Lake Titicaca.The three flying machines, the
_Ann_, the _Louise_ and the _Bertha_, lay just outside the circle of
illumination.It was the evening of the fourth day after the incidents
recorded in the last chapter.The Flying Machine Boys had traveled at good speed, yet with frequent
rests, from the mountain cone above the Peruvian mines to the little
valley in which the machines now lay.Jimmie and Carl, well wrapped in blankets, were lying with their feet
extended toward the blaze, while Glenn was broiling venison steak at one
corner of the great fire, and, also, as he frequently explained,
broiling his face to a lobster finish while he turned the steaks about
in order to get the exact finish.The millionaire aviator and Sam sat some distance away discussing
prospects and plans for the next day.While they talked an Indian
accompanied by Ben came slowly out of the shadows at the eastern edge of
the valley and approached the fire.“Have you discovered the Mystery of the Andes?” asked Havens with a
laugh as the two came up.“We certainly have discovered the Mystery of the Andes!” cried Ben
excitedly.“But we haven’t discovered the mystery of the mystery!”

“Come again!” shouted Jimmie springing to his feet.“You see,” Ben went on, “Toluca took me to a point on the cliff to the
south from which the ghost lights of the mysterious fortress can be
seen, but we don’t know any more about the origin of the lights than we
did before we saw them.”

“Then there really are lights?” asked Carl.“There certainly are!” replied Ben.“What kind of an old shop, is it?” asked Jimmie.“It’s one of the old-time fortresses,” replied Ben.“It is built on a
steep mountainside and guards a pass between this valley and one beyond.It looks as if it might have been a rather formidable fortress a few
hundred years ago, but now a shot from a modern gun would send the
battlements flying into the valley.”

“But why the lights?” demanded Jimmie.“That’s the mystery!” Ben answered.“They’re ghost lights!”

“Up to within a few months,” Mr.Havens began, “this fortress has never
attracted much attention.It is said to be rather a large fortification,
and some of the apartments are said to extend under the cliff, in the
same manner as many of the gun rooms on Gibraltar extend into the
interior of that solid old rock.”

“More subterranean passages!” groaned Jimmie.“I never want to see or
hear of one again.Ever since that experience at the alleged temple they
will always smell of wild animals and powder smoke.”

“A few months ago,” the millionaire aviator continued, smiling
tolerantly at the boy, “ghostly lights began making their appearance in
the vicinity of the fort.American scientists who were in this part of
the country at that time made a careful investigation of the
demonstrations, and reported that the illuminations existed only in the
imaginations of the natives.And yet, it is certain that the scientists
were mistaken.”

“More bunk!” exclaimed Carl.Havens went on, “the natives kept religiously away from
the old fort, but now they seem to be willing to gather in its vicinity
and worship at the strange fires which glow from the ruined battlements.It is strange combination, and that’s a fact.”

“How long have these lights been showing?” asked Sam.“Perhaps six months,” was the reply.“I apprehend,” he said, “that you know exactly what that means.”

“I think I do!” was the reply.“Put us wise to it!” exclaimed Jimmie.“Perhaps,” smiled the millionaire, “I would better satisfy myself as to
the truth of my theory before I say anything more about it.”

“All right,” replied the boy with the air of a much-abused person, “then
I’ll go back to my blanket and sleep for the rest of my three weeks!”

“If you do,” Glenn cut in, “you’ll miss one of these venison steaks.”

Jimmie was back on his feet in a minute.“Lead me to it!” he cried.The boys still declare that that was the most satisfying meal of which
they ever partook.The broiled steaks were excellent, and the tinned
goods which had been purchased at one of the small Peruvian mining towns
on the way down, were fresh and sweet.As may be understood without extended description, the work of washing
the dishes and cleaning up after the meal was not long extended!In an hour every member of the party except Toluca was sound asleep.The
Indian had been engaged on the recommendation of an acquaintance at one
of the towns on the line of the interior railroad, and was entirely
trustworthy.He now sat just outside the circle of light, gazing with
rapt attention in the direction of the fortress which for some time past
had been known as the Mystery of the Andes.A couple of hours passed, and then Ben rolled over to where Jimmie lay
asleep, his feet toasting at the fire, his head almost entirely covered
by his blanket.“Wake up, sleepy-head!” Ben whispered.Jimmie stirred uneasily in his slumber and half opened his eyes.“Go on away!” he whispered.“But look here!” Ben insisted.“I’ve got something to tell you!”

Toluca arose and walked over to where the two boys were sitting.“Look here!” Ben went on.“Here’s Toluca now, and I’ll leave it to him
if every word I say isn’t true.He can’t talk much United States, but he
can nod when I make a hit.Can’t you, Toluca?”

The Indian nodded and Ben went on:

“Between this valley,” the boy explained, “and the face of the mountain
against which the fort sticks like a porous plaster is another valley.Through this second valley runs a ripping, roaring, foaming, mountain
stream which almost washes the face of the cliff against which the
fortress stands.This stream, you understand, is one of the original
defences, as it cuts off approach from the north.”

“I understand,” said Jimmie sleepily.“Now, the only way to reach this alleged mystery of the Andes from this
direction seems to be to sail over this valley in one of the machines
and drop down on the cliff at the rear.”

“But is there a safe landing there?” asked the boy.“Toluca says there is!”

“Has he been there?” asked Jimmie.“Of course he has!” answered Ben.“He doesn’t believe in the Inca
superstitions about ghostly lights and all that.”

“Then why don’t we take one of the machines and go over there?” demanded
Jimmie.“That would be fun!”

“That’s just what I came to talk with you about?”

“I’m game for it!” the boy asserted.“As a matter of fact,” Ben explained as the boys arose and softly
approached the _Louise_, “the only other known way of reaching the
fortress is by a long climb which occupies about two days.Of course,”
he went on, “the old fellows selected the most desirable position for
defence when they built the fort.That is,” he added, “unless we reach
it by the air route.”

“The air line,” giggled Jimmie, “is the line we’re patronizing
to-night.”

“Of course!” Ben answered.“All previous explorers, it seems, have
approached the place on foot, and by the winding ledges and paths
leading to it.Now, naturally, the people who are engineering the ghost
lights and all that sort of thing there see the fellows coming and get
the apparatus out of sight before the visitors arrive.”

“Does Mr.Havens know all about this?” asked Jimmie.“You’re dense, my son!” whispered Ben.“We’ve come all this way to light
down on the fortress in the night-time without giving warning of our
approach.That’s why we came here in the flying machines.”

“He thinks Redfern is here?” asked Jimmie.“He thinks this is a good place to look for him!” was the reply.“Then we’ll beat him to it!” Jimmie chuckled.Toluca seemed to understand what the boys were about to do and smiled
grimly as the machine lifted from the ground and whirled softly away.As
the _Louise_ left the valley, Mr.Havens and Sam turned lazily in their
blankets, doubtless disturbed by the sound of the motors, but, all being
quiet about the camp, soon composed themselves to slumber again.“Now, we’ll have to go slowly!” Ben exclaimed as the machine lifted so
that the lights of the distant mystery came into view, “for the reason
that we mustn’t make too much noise.Besides,” he went on, “we’ve got to
switch off to the east, cut a wide circle around the crags, and come
down on the old fort from the south.”

“And when we get there?” asked Jimmie.“Why,” replied Ben, “we’re going to land and sneak into the fort!That’s
what we’re going for!”

“I hope we won’t tumble into a lot of jaguars, and savages, and
half-breed Spaniards!” exclaimed Jimmie.“Oh, we’re just going to look now,” Ben answered, “and when we find out
what’s going on there we’re coming back and let Mr.We wouldn’t like to take all the glory away from him.”

Following this plan, the boys sent the machine softly away to the east,
flying without lights, and at as low altitude as possible, until they
were some distance away from the camp.In an hour the fortress showed to the north, or at least the summit
under which it lay did.“There’s the landing-place just east of that cliff,” Ben exclaimed, as
he swung still lower down.“I’ll see if I can hit it.”

The _Louise_ took kindly to the landing, and in ten minutes more the
boys were moving cautiously in the direction of the old fort, now lying
dark and silent under the starlight.It seemed to Jimmie that his heart
was in his throat as the possible solution of the mystery of the Andes
drew near!TWO RUNAWAY AVIATORS!Half an hour after the departure of the _Louise_, Sam awoke with a start
and moved over to where the millionaire aviator was sleeping.“Time to be moving!” he whispered in his ear.Havens yawned, stretched himself, and threw his blanket aside.“I don’t know,” he said with a smile, “but we’re doing wrong in taking
all the credit of this game.The boys have done good work ever since
leaving New York, and my conscience rather pricks me at the thought of
leaving them out of the closing act.”

“Well,” Sam answered, “the boys are certainly made of the right
material, if they are just a little too much inclined to take
unnecessary risks.I wouldn’t mind having them along, but, really,
there’s no knowing what one of them might do.”

“Very well,” replied Mr.Havens, “we’ll get underway in the _Ann_ and
land on top of the fortress before the occupants of that musty old
fortification know that we are in the air.”

“That’s the talk!” Sam agreed.“We’ll make a wide circuit to the west
and come up on that side of the summit which rises above the fort.I’m
certain, from what I saw this afternoon, that there is a good
landing-place there.Most of these Peruvian mountain chains,” he went
on, “are plentifully supplied with good landings, as the shelves and
ledges which lie like terraces on the crags were formerly used as
highways and trails by the people who lived here hundreds of years ago.”

“We must be very careful in getting away from the camp,” Mr.“We don’t want the boys to suspect that we are going off on a
little adventure of our own.”

“Very well,” replied the other, “I’ll creep over in the shadows and push
the _Ann_ down the valley so softly that they’ll never know what’s taken
place.If you walk down a couple of hundred yards, I’ll pick you up.Then we’ll be away without disturbing any one.”

So eager were the two to leave the camp without their intentions being
discovered by the others, that they did not stop to see whether all the
three machines were still in place.The _Ann_ stood farthest to the
east, next to the _Bertha_, and Sam crept in between the two aeroplanes
and began working the _Ann_ slowly along the grassy sward.Had he lifted his head for a moment and looked to the rear, he must have
seen that only the _Bertha_ lay behind him.Had he investigated the two
rolls of blankets lying near the fire, he would have seen that they
covered no sleeping forms!The _Ann_ moved noiselessly
down the valley to where Mr.Havens awaited her and was sent into the
air.The rattle of the motors seemed to the two men to be loud enough to
bring any one within ten miles out of a sound sleep, but they saw no
movements below, and soon passed out of sight.Wheeling sharply off to the west, they circled cliffs, gorges and grassy
valleys for an hour until they came to the western <DW72> of the mountain
which held the fortress.It will be remembered that the _Louise_ had
circled to the east.Havens said as he slowed down, “if we find a
landing-place here, even moderately secure, down we go.If I don’t, I’ll
shoot up again and land squarely on top of the fort.”

“I don’t believe it’s got any roof to land on!” smiled Sam.“Yes, it has!” replied Mr.“I’ve had the old fraud investigated.I know quite a lot about her!”

“You have had her investigated?” asked Sam, in amazement.“You know very well,” the millionaire went on, “that we have long
suspected Redfern to be hiding in this part of Peru.I can’t tell you
now how we secured all the information we possess on the subject.“However, it is enough to say that by watching the mails and sending out
messengers we have connected the rival trust company of which you have
heard me speak with mysterious correspondents in Peru.The work has been
long, but rather satisfying.”

“Why,” Sam declared, “I thought this expedition was a good deal of a
guess!I hadn’t any idea you knew so much about this country.”

“We know more about it than is generally believed,” was the answer.“Deposit box A, which was robbed on the night Ralph Hubbard was
murdered, contained, as I have said, all the information we possessed
regarding this case.When the papers were stolen I felt like giving up
the quest, but the code telegrams cheered me up a bit, especially when
they were stolen.”

“I don’t see anything cheerful in having the despatches stolen.”

“It placed the information I possessed in the hands of my enemies, of
course,” the other went on, “but at the same time it set them to
watching the points we had in a way investigated, and which they now
understood that we intended to visit.”

“I don’t quite get you!” Sam said.“You had an illustration of that at the haunted temple,” Mr.“The Redfern group knew that that place was on my list.By
some quick movement, understood at this time only by themselves, they
sent a man there to corrupt the custodian of the captive animals.Only for courage and good sense, the machines
would have been destroyed.”

“The savages unwittingly helped some!” suggested Sam.“Yes, everything seemed to work to your advantage,” Mr.“At the mines, now,” he continued, “we helped ourselves out
of the trap set for us.”

“You don’t think the miners, too, were working under instructions?”
asked Sam.“That seems impossible!”

“This rival trust company,” Mr.Havens went on, “has agents in every
part of the world.It is my
belief that not only the men of the mine we came upon, but the men of
every other mine along the Andes, were under instructions to look out
for, and, under some pretense, destroy any flying machines which made
their appearance.”

“They are nervy fighters, anyway, if this is true!” Sam said.“They certainly are, and for the very good reason that the arrest and
conviction of Redfern would place stripes on half a dozen of the
directors of the new company.As you have heard me say before, the proof
is almost positive that the money embezzled from us was placed in this
new company.Redfern is a sneak, and will confess everything to protect
himself.Hence, the interest of the trust company in keeping him out of
sight.”

“Well, I hope he won’t get out of sight after to-night,” suggested Sam.“I hope we’ll have him good and tight before morning.”

“I firmly believe that he will be taken to-night!” was the reply.The machine was now only a short distance above the ledge upon which the
aviator aimed to land.Even in the dim light they could see a level
stretch of rock, and the _Ann_ was soon resting easily within a short
distance of the fort, now hidden only by an angle of the cliff.Presently the two moved forward together and looked around the base of
the cliff.The fort lay dark and silent in the night.So far as
appearances were concerned, there had never been any lights displayed
from her battlements during the long years which had passed away since
her construction!There was only a very narrow ledge between the northern wall of the fort
and the precipice which struck straight down into the valley, three
hundred feet below.In order to reach the interior of the fortification
from the position they occupied, it would be necessary for Havens and
his companion to pass along this ledge and creep into an opening which
faced the valley.At regular intervals on the outer edge of this ledge were balanced great
boulders, placed there in prehistoric times for use in case an attempt
should be made to scale the precipice.A single one of these rocks, if
cast down at the right moment, might have annihilated an army.The two men passed along the ledge gingerly, for they understood that a
slight push would send one of these boulders crashing down.At last they
came to what seemed to be an entrance into the heart of the fortress.There were no lights in sight as they looked in.The place seemed
utterly void of human life.Sam crept in first and waited for his companion to follow.Havens
sprang at the ledge of the opening, which was some feet above the level
of the shelf on which he stood, and lifted himself by his arms.As he
did so a fragment of rock under one hand gave way and he dropped back.In saving himself he threw out both feet and reached for a crevice in
the wall.This would have been an entirely safe procedure if his feet
had not come with full force against one of the boulders overlooking the
valley.He felt the stone move under the pressure, and the next instant, with a
noise like the discharge of a battery of artillery, the great boulder
crashed down the almost perpendicular face of the precipice and was
shattered into a thousand fragments on a rock which lay at the verge of
the stream below.With a soft cry of alarm, Sam bent over the ledge which protected the
opening and seized his employer by the collar.It was quick and
desperate work then, for it was certain that every person within a
circuit of many miles had heard the fall of the boulder.Doubtless in less than a minute the occupants of the fortress—if such
there were—would be on their feet ready to contest the entrance of the
midnight visitors.“We’ve got to get into some quiet nook mighty quick,” Sam whispered in
Mr.Havens’ ear as the latter was drawn through the opening.“I guess
the ringing of that old door-bell will bring the ghost out in a hurry!”

The two crouched in an angle of the wall at the front interior of the
place and listened.Directly a light flashed out at the rear of what
seemed to the watchers to be an apartment a hundred yards in length.Then footsteps came down the stone floor and a powerful arc light filled
every crevice and angle of the great apartment with its white rays.There was no need to attempt further concealment.The two sprang
forward, reaching for their automatics, as three men with weapons
pointing towards them advanced under the light.“I guess,” Sam whispered, “that this means a show-down.”

“There’s no getting out of that!” whispered Havens.“We have reached the
end of the journey, for the man in the middle is Redfern!”




                             CHAPTER XXIV.As Redfern and his two companions advanced down the apartment, their
revolvers leveled, Havens and Sam dropped their hands away from their
automatics.“Hardly quick enough, Havens,” Redfern said, advancing with a wicked
smile on his face.“To tell you the truth, old fellow, we have been
looking for you for a couple of days!”

“I’ve been looking for you longer than that!” replied Mr.“Well,” Redfern said with a leer, “it seems that we have both met our
heart’s desire.How are your friends?”

“Sound asleep and perfectly happy,” replied the millionaire.“You mean that they were asleep when you left them.”

“Certainly!”

“Fearful that they might oversleep themselves,” Redfern went on, “I sent
my friends to awake them.I expect
to hold quite a reception to-night.”

Laying his automatic down on the floor, Havens walked deliberately to a
great easy-chair which stood not far away and sat down.No one would
judge from the manner of the man that he was not resting himself in one
of his own cosy rooms at his New York hotel.Sam was not slow in
following the example of his employer.Redfern frowned slightly at the
nonchalance of the man.“You make yourself at home!” he said.“I have a notion,” replied Mr.Havens, “that I paid for most of this
furniture.I think I have a right to use it.”

“Look here, Havens,” Redfern said, “you have no possible show of getting
out of this place alive unless you come to terms with me.”

“From the lips of any other man in the world I might believe the
statement,” Mr.“But you, Redfern, have proven yourself
to be such a consummate liar that I don’t believe a word you say.”

“Then you’re not open to compromise?”

Havens shook his head.There was now a sound of voices in what seemed to be a corridor back of
the great apartment, and in a moment Glenn and Carl were pushed into the
room, their wrists bound tightly together, their eyes blinking under the
strong electric light.Both boys were almost sobbing with rage and
shame.“They jumped on us while we were asleep!” cried Carl.Redfern went to the back of the room and looked out into the passage.“Where are the others?” he asked of some one who was not in sight.“These boys were the only ones remaining in camp,” was the reply.“Redfern,” said Havens, as coolly as if he had been sitting at his own
desk in the office of the Invincible Trust Company, “will you tell me
how you managed to get these boys here so quickly?”

“Not the slightest objection in the world,” was the reply.“There is a
secret stairway up the cliff.You took a long way to get here in that
clumsy old machine.”

“Thank you!” said Mr.“Now, if you don’t mind,” Redfern said, “we’ll introduce you to your new
quarters.They are not as luxurious as those you occupy in New York, but
I imagine they will serve your purpose until you are ready to come to
terms.”

He pointed toward the two prisoners, and the men by his side advanced
with cords in their hands.Havens extended his wrists with a smile on
his face and Sam did likewise.“You’re good sports,” cried Redfern.“It’s a pity we can’t come to
terms!”

“Never mind that!” replied Havens.“Go on with your program.”

Redfern walked back to the corridor and the prisoners heard him
dismissing some one for the night.“You may go to bed now,” he said.The two
men with me will care for the prisoners.”

The party passed down a stone corridor to the door of a room which had
evidently been used as a fortress dungeon in times past.Redfern turned
a great key in the lock and motioned the prisoners inside.At that moment he stood facing the prisoners with the two others at his
sides, all looking inquiringly into the faces of those who were taking
their defeat so easily.As Redfern swung his hand toward the open door he felt something cold
pressing against his neck.He turned about to face an automatic revolver
held in the hands of Ben Whitcomb!His two accomplices moved forward a
pace in defense, but drew back when they saw the automatic in Jimmie’s
hand within a foot of their breasts.“And now,” said Mr.Havens, as coolly as if the situation was being put
on in a New York parlor, “you three men will please step inside.”

“I’m a game loser, too!” exclaimed Redfern.In a moment the door was closed and locked and the cords were cut from
the hands of the four prisoners.“Good!” said Jimmie.“I don’t know what you fellows would do without me.I’m always getting you out of scrapes!”

What was said after that need not be repeated here.Havens thoroughly appreciated the service which had been
rendered.“The game is played to the end, boys,” he said in a moment.“The only
thing that remains to be done is to get Redfern down the secret stairway
to the machines.The others we care nothing about.”

“I know where that secret stairway is,” Ben said.“While we were
sneaking around here in the darkness, a fellow came climbing up the
stairs, grunting as though he had reached the top of the Washington
monument.”

“Where were the others put to bed?” asked Sam.“We heard Redfern dismiss
them for the night.Did you see where they went?”

“Sure!” replied Jimmie.“They’re in a room opening from this corridor a
little farther down.”

Mr.Havens took the key from the lock of the door before him and handed
it to Jimmie.“See if you can lock them in with this,” he said.The boy returned in a moment with a grin on his face.“They are locked in!” he said.“Are there any others here?” asked Havens.“They all go away at night,” he declared, “after they turn out the ghost
lights.Redfern it seems keeps only those two with him for company.Their friends will unlock them in the morning.”

Mr.Havens opened the door and called out to Redfern, who immediately
appeared in the opening.“Search his pockets and tie his hands,” the millionaire said, turning to
Sam.“You know what this means, Redfern?” he added to the prisoner.“It means Sing Sing,” was the sullen reply, “but there are plenty of
others who will keep me company.”

“That’s the idea!” cried Havens.“That’s just why I came here!I want
the officials of the new trust company more than I want you.”

“You’ll get them if I have my way about it!” was the reply.An hour later the _Ann_ and the _Louise_ dropped down in the green
valley by the camp-fire.Redfern was sullen at first, but before the
start which was made soon after sunrise he related to Havens the
complete story of his embezzlement and his accomplices.He told of the
schemes which had been resorted to by the officials of the new trust
company to keep him out of the United States, and to keep Havens from
reaching him.The Flying Machine Boys parted with Havens at Quito, the millionaire
aviator going straight to Panama with his prisoner, while the boys
camped and hunted and fished in the Andes for two weeks before returning
to New York.It had been the intention of the lads to bring Doran and some of the
others at Quito to punishment, but it was finally decided that the
victory had been so complete that they could afford to forgive their
minor enemies.They had been only pawns in the hands of a great
corporation.“The one fake thing about this whole proposition,” Jimmie said as the
boys landed in New York, sunburned and happy, “is that alleged Mystery
of the Andes!It was too commonplace—just a dynamo in a subterranean
mountain stream, and electric lights!Say,” he added, with one of his
inimitable grins, “electricity makes pretty good ghost lights, though!”

“Redfern revealed his residence by trying to conceal it!” declared Ben.Still,” he went on, “the Mystery was some
mystery for a long time!It must have cost a lot to set the stage for
it.”

The next day Mr.Havens called to visit the boys at their hotel.“While you were loafing in the mountains,” he said, after greetings had
been exchanged, “the murderer of Hubbard confessed and was sentenced to
die in the electric chair.Redfern and half a dozen directors of the new
trust company have been given long sentences at Sing Sing.”

“There are associates that ought to go, too!” Jimmie cried.“We’re not going to prosecute them,” Mr.“But this is
not to the point.The Federal Government wants you boys to undertake a
little mission for the Secret Service men.You see,” he went on, “you
boys made quite a hit in that Peruvian job.”

“Will Sam go?” asked Ben.“Sam is Sam no longer,” replied Mr.“He is now
Warren P. King, son of the banker!What do you think of that?”

“Then what was he doing playing the tramp?” asked Carl.“Oh, he quarreled with his father, and it was the old story, but it is
all smooth sailing for him now.He may go with you, but his father
naturally wants him at home for a spell.”

“Where are we to go?” asked Ben.“I’ll tell you that later,” was the reply.“Will you go?”

The boys danced around the room and declared that they were ready to
start that moment.The story of their adventures on the trip will be
found in the next volume of this series, entitled:

“The Flying Machine Boys on Secret Service; or, the Capture in the Air!”


                                THE END.------------------------------------------------------------------------




                            Transcriber’s Notes:

    Italicized phrases are presented by surrounding the text with
    _underscores_.Minor spelling, punctuation and typographic errors were corrected
    silently, except as noted below.Hyphenated words have been retained
    as they appear in the original text.On page 3, "smoldered" was left as is (rather than changed to
    "smouldered"), as both spellings were used in the time period.On page 99, "say" was added to "I don't care what you about Sam".On page 197, "good-by" was changed to "good-bye" to be consistent
    with other usage in the book.Godfather'sh'shed at them, and, as far as he could reach,
beat them with his stick; for he wanted to make them be quiet and
tell tales.But to stop their noise seemed just about as easy as to
stop a carriage running down a hill.Godfather began to tell a tale,
however.At first many of them would not listen; they knew his
stories already; but soon they all listened attentively; and before
they thought of it, they set off tale-telling themselves at full
gallop.Though they had just been so noisy, their tales, to Arne's
great surprise, were very earnest: they ran principally upon love."You, Aasa, know a good tale, I remember from last year," said
Godfather, turning to a plump girl with a round, good-natured face,
who sat plaiting the hair of a younger sister, whose head lay in her
lap."But perhaps several know it already," answered Aasa."Never mind, tell it," they begged."Very well, I'll tell it without any more persuading," she answered;
and then, plaiting her sister's hair all the while, she told and
sang:--

"There was once a grown-up lad who tended cattle, and who often drove
them upwards near a broad stream.On one side was a high steep cliff,
jutting out so far over the stream that when he was upon it he could
talk to any one on the opposite side; and all day he could see a girl
over there tending cattle, but he couldn't go to her.'Now, tell me thy name, thou girl that art sitting
    Up there with thy sheep, so busily knitting,'

he asked over and over for many days, till one day at last there came
an answer:--

   'My name floats about like a duck in wet weather;
    Come over, thou boy in the cap of brown leather.'"This left the lad no wiser than he was before; and he thought he
wouldn't mind her any further.This, however, was much more easily
thought than done, for drive his cattle whichever way he would, it
always, somehow or other, led to that same high steep cliff.Then the
lad grew frightened; and he called over to her--

   'Well, who is your father, and where are you biding?On the road to the church I have ne'er seen you riding.'"The lad asked this because he half believed she was a huldre.[3]

 [3] "Over the whole of Norway, the tradition is current of a
 supernatural being that dwells in the forests and mountains, called
 Huldre or Hulla.She appears like a beautiful woman, and is usually
 clad in a blue petticoat and a white snood; but unfortunately has a
 long tail, which she anxiously tries to conceal when she is among
 people.She is fond of cattle, particularly brindled, of which she
 possesses a beautiful and thriving stock.She was once at a merrymaking, where every one was desirous of
 dancing with the handsome, strange damsel; but in the midst of the
 mirth, a young man, who had just begun a dance with her, happened
 to cast his eye on her tail.Immediately guessing whom he had got
 for a partner, he was not a little terrified; but, collecting
 himself, and unwilling to betray her, he merely said to her when
 the dance was over, 'Fair maid, you will lose your garter.'She
 instantly vanished, but afterwards rewarded the silent and
 considerate youth with beautiful presents and a good breed of
 cattle.The idea entertained of this being is not everywhere the
 same, but varies considerably in different parts of Norway.In some
 places she is described as a handsome female when seen in front,
 but is hollow behind, or else blue; while in others she is known by
 the name of Skogmerte, and is said to be blue, but clad in a green
 petticoat, and probably corresponds to the Swedish Skogsnyfoor.Her
 song--a sound often heard among the mountains--is said to be hollow
 and mournful, differing therein from the music of the subterranean
 beings, which is described by earwitnesses as cheerful and
 fascinating.But she is not everywhere regarded as a solitary wood
 nymph.Huldremen and Huldrefolk are also spoken of, who live
 together in the mountains, and are almost identical with the
 subterranean people.In Hardanger the Huldre people are always clad
 in green, but their cattle are blue, and may be taken when a
 grown-up person casts his belt over them.The Huldres take possession of the forsaken pasture-spots in
 the mountains, and invite people into their mounds, where
 delightful music is to be heard."--_Thorpe's Northern Mythology._

   'My house is burned down, and my father is drowned,
    And the road to the church-hill I never have found.'"This again left the lad no wiser than he was before.In the daytime
he kept hovering about the cliff; and at night he dreamed she danced
with him, and lashed him with a big cow's tail whenever he tried to
catch her.Soon he could neither sleep nor work; and altogether the
lad got in a very poor way.Then once more he called from the cliff--

   'If thou art a huldre, then pray do not spell me;
    If thou art a maiden, then hasten to tell me.'"But there came no answer; and so he was sure she was a huldre.He
gave up tending cattle; but it was all the same; wherever he went,
and whatever he did, he was all the while thinking of the beautiful
huldre who blew on the horn.Soon he could bear it no longer; and one
moonlight evening when all were asleep, he stole away into the
forest, which stood there all dark at the bottom, but with its
tree-tops bright in the moonbeams.He sat down on the cliff, and
called--

   'Run forward, my huldre; my love has o'ercome me;
    My life is a burden; no longer hide from me.'"The lad looked and looked; but she didn't appear.Then he heard
something moving behind him; he turned round and saw a big black
bear, which came forward, squatted on the ground and looked at him.But he ran away from the cliff and through the forest as fast as his
legs could carry him: if the bear followed him, he didn't know, for
he didn't turn round till he lay safely in bed."'It was one of her herd,' the lad thought; 'it isn't worth while to
go there any more;' and he didn't go."Then, one day, while he was chopping wood, a girl came across the
yard who was the living picture of the huldre: but when she drew
nearer, he saw it wasn't she.Then he saw
the girl coming back, and again while she was at a distance she
seemed to be the huldre, and he ran to meet her; but as soon as he
came near, he saw it wasn't she."After this, wherever the lad was--at church at dances, or any other
parties--the girl was, too; and still when at a distance she seemed
to be the huldre, and when near she was somebody else.Then he asked
her whether she was the huldre or not, but she only laughed at him.'One may as well leap into it as creep into it,' the lad thought; and
so he married the girl."But the lad had hardly done this before he ceased to like the girl:
when he was away from her he longed for her; but when he was with her
he yearned for some one he did not see.So the lad behaved very badly
to his wife; but she suffered in silence."Then one day when he was out looking for his horses, he came again
to the cliff; and he sat down and called out--

   'Like fairy moonlight, to me thou seemest;
    Like Midsummer-fires, from afar thou gleamest.'"He felt that it did him good to sit there; and afterwards he went
whenever things were wrong at home."But one day when he was sitting there, he saw the huldre sitting all
alive on the other side blowing her horn.He called over--

   'Ah, dear, art thou come!"Then she answered--

   'Away from thy mind the dreams I am blowing;
    Thy rye is all rotting for want of mowing.'"But then the lad felt frightened and went home again.Ere long,
however, he grew so tired of his wife that he was obliged to go to
the forest again, and he sat down on the cliff.Then was sung over to
him--

   'I dreamed thou wast here; ho, hasten to bind me!No; not over there, but behind you will find me.'"The lad jumped up and looked around him, and caught a glimpse of a
green petticoat just slipping away between the shrubs.He followed,
and it came to a hunting all through the forest.So swift-footed as
that huldre, no human creature could be: he flung steel over her
again and again, but still she ran on just as well as ever.But soon
the lad saw, by her pace, that she was beginning to grow tired,
though he saw, too, by her shape, that she could be no other than the
huldre.'Now,' he thought, you'll be mine easily;' and he caught hold
on her so suddenly and roughly that they both fell, and rolled down
the hills a long way before they could stop themselves.Then the
huldre laughed till it seemed to the lad the mountains sang again.He
took her upon his knee; and so beautiful she was, that never in all
his life he had seen any one like her: exactly like her, he thought
his wife should have been.'Ah, who are you who are so beautiful?'he
asked, stroking her cheek.'I'm your wife,' she
answered."The girls laughed much at that tale, and ridiculed the lad.But
Godfather asked Arne if he had listened well to it."Well, now I'll tell you something," said a little girl with a little
round face, and a very little nose:--

"Once there was a little lad who wished very much to woo a little
girl.They were both grown up; but yet they were very little.And the
lad couldn't in any way muster courage to ask her to have him.He
kept close to her when they came home from church; but, somehow or
other, their chat was always about the weather.He went over to her
at the dancing-parties, and nearly danced her to death; but still he
couldn't bring himself to say what he wanted.'You must learn to
write,' he said to himself; 'then you'll manage matters.'And the lad
set to writing; but he thought it could never be done well enough;
and so he wrote a whole year round before he dared do his letter.Now, the thing was to get it given to her without anybody seeing.He
waited till one day when they were standing all by themselves behind
the church.'I've got a letter for you,' said the lad.'But I can't
read writing,' the girl answered."Then he went to service at the girl's father's house; and he used to
keep hovering round her all day long.Once he had nearly brought
himself to speak; in fact, he had already opened his mouth; but then
a big fly flew in it.'Well, I hope, at any rate, nobody else will
come to take her away,' the lad thought; but nobody came to take her,
because she was so very little."By-and-by, however, some one _did_ come, and he, too, was little.The lad could see very well what he wanted; and when he and the girl
went up-stairs together, the lad placed himself at the key-hole.Then
he who was inside made his offer.'Bad luck to me, I, codfish, who
didn't make haste!'He who was inside kissed the
girl just on her lips----.'No doubt that tasted nice,' the lad
thought.But he who was inside took the girl on his lap.Then the
girl heard him and went to the door.'What do you want, you nasty
boy?'said she, 'why can't you leave me alone?'--'I?I only wanted to
ask you to have me for your bridesman.'--'No; that, my brother's
going to be,' the girl answered, banging the door to.The girls laughed very much at this tale, and afterwards pelted each
other with husks.Then Godfather wished Eli Boeen to tell something."Well, she might tell what she had told him on the hill, the last
time he came to see her parents, when she gave him the new garters.Eli laughed very much; and it was some time before she would tell it:
however, she did at last,--

"A lad and a girl were once walking together on a road.'Ah, look at
that thrush that follows us!''It follows _me_,' said
the lad.'It's just as likely to be _me_,' the girl answered.'That,
we'll soon find out,' said the lad; 'you go that way, while I go
this, and we'll meet up yonder.''Well, didn't it follow
me?''No; it followed me,' answered the
girl.They went together again for some
distance, but then there was only one thrush; and the lad thought it
flew on his side, but the girl thought it flew on hers.'Devil a bit,
I care for that thrush,' said the lad."But no sooner had they said this, than the thrush flew away.'It was
on _your_ side, it was,' said the lad.'Thank you,' answered the
girl; 'but I clearly saw it was on _your_ side.--But see!'Indeed, it's on _my_ side,' the lad exclaimed.Then
the girl got angry: 'Ah, well, I wish I may never stir if I go with
you any longer!'"Then the thrush, too, left the lad; and he felt so dull that he
called out to the girl, 'Is the thrush with you?'--'No; isn't it with
you?'--'Ah, no; you must come here again, and then perhaps it will
follow you.'"The girl came; and she and the lad walked on together, hand in
hand.'Quitt, quitt, quitt, quitt!'sounded on the girl's side;
'quitt, quitt, quitt, quitt!'sounded on the lad's side; 'quitt,
quitt, quitt, quitt!'sounded on every side; and when they looked
there were a hundred thousand million thrushes all round them.said the girl, looking up at the lad.All the girls thought this was such a nice tale.Then Godfather said they must tell what they had dreamed last night,
and he would decide who had dreamed the nicest things.And then there was no end of tittering and whispering.But soon one
after another began to think she had such a nice dream last night;
and then others thought it could not possibly be so nice as what they
had dreamed; and at last they all got a great mind for telling their
dreams.Yet they must not be told aloud, but to one only, and that
one must by no means be Godfather.Arne had all this time been
sitting quietly a little lower down the hill, and so the girls
thought they dared tell their dreams to him.Then Arne seated himself under a hazel-bush; and Aasa, the girl who
had told the first tale, came over to him.She hesitated a while, but
then began,--

"I dreamed I was standing by a large lake.Then I saw one walking on
the water, and it was one whose name I will not say.He stepped into
a large water-lily, and sat there singing.But I launched out upon
one of the large leaves of the lily which lay floating on the water;
for on it I would row over to him.But no sooner had I come upon the
leaf than it began to sink with me, and I became much frightened, and
I wept.Then he came rowing along in the water-lily, and lifted me
up to him; and we rowed all over the whole lake.Next came the little girl who had told the tale about the little
lad,--

"I dreamed I had caught a little bird, and I was so pleased with it,
and I thought I wouldn't let it loose till I came home in our room.But there I dared not let it loose, for I was afraid father and
mother might tell me to let it go again.So I took it up-stairs; but
I could not let it loose there, either, for the cat was lurking
about.Then I didn't know what in the world to do; yet I took it into
the barn.Dear me, there were so many cracks, I was afraid it might
go away!Well, then I went down again into the yard; and there, it
seemed to me some one was standing whose name I will not say.He
stood playing with a big, big dog.'I would rather play with that
bird of yours,' he said, and drew very near to me.But then it seemed
to me I began running away; and both he and the big dog ran after me
all round the yard; but then mother opened the front door, pulled me
hastily in, and banged the door after me.The lad, however, stood
laughing outside, with his face against the window-pane.'Look,
here's the bird,' he said; and, only think, he had my bird out there!Then came the girl who had told about the thrushes--Eli, they called
her.She was laughing so much that she could not speak for some time;
but at last she began,--

"I had been looking forward with very much pleasure to our nutting in
the wood to-day; and so last night I dreamed I was sitting here on
the hill.The sun shone brightly; and I had my lap full of nuts.But
there came a little squirrel among them, and it sat on its hind-legs
and ate them all up.Afterwards some more dreams were told him; and then the girls would
have him say which was the nicest.Of course, he must have plenty of
time for consideration; and meanwhile Godfather and the whole flock
went down to the house, leaving Arne to follow.They skipped down the
hill, and when they came to the plain went all in a row singing
towards the house.Arne sat alone on the hill, listening to the singing.Strong sunlight
fell on the group of girls, and their white bodices shone bright, as
they went dancing over the meadows, every now and then clasping each
other round the waist; while Godfather limped behind, threatening
them with a stick because they trod down his hay.Arne thought no
more of the dreams, and soon he no longer looked after the girls.His
thoughts went floating far away beyond the valley, like the fine
air-threads, while he remained behind on the hill, spinning; and
before he was aware of it he had woven a close web of sadness.More
than ever, he longed to go away.he said to himself; "surely, I've been
lingering long enough now!"He promised himself that he would speak
to the mother about it as soon as he reached home, however it might
turn out.With greater force than ever, his thoughts turned to his song, "Over
the mountains high;" and never before had the words come so swiftly,
or linked themselves into rhyme so easily; they seemed almost like
girls sitting in a circle on the brow of a hill.He had a piece of
paper with him, and placing it upon his knee, he wrote down the
verses as they came.When he had finished the song, he rose like one
freed from a burden.He felt unwilling to see any one, and went
homewards by the way through the wood, though he knew he should then
have to walk during the night.The first time he stopped to rest on
the way, he put his hand to his pocket to take out the song,
intending to sing it aloud to himself through the wood; but he found
he had left it behind at the place where it was composed.One of the girls went on the hill to look for him; she did not find
him, but she found his song.X.

LOOSENING THE WEATHER-VANE.To speak to the mother about going away, was more easily thought of
than done.He spoke again about Christian, and those letters which
had never come; but then the mother went away, and for days
afterwards he thought her eyes looked red and swollen.He noticed,
too, that she then got nicer food for him than usual; and this gave
him another sign of her state of mind with regard to him.One day he went to cut fagots in a wood which bordered upon another
belonging to the parsonage, and through which the road ran.Just
where he was going to cut his fagots, people used to come in autumn
to gather whortleberries.He had laid aside his axe to take off his
jacket, and was just going to begin work, when two girls came walking
along with a basket to gather berries.He used generally to hide
himself rather than meet girls, and he did so now."Well, but, then, don't go any farther; here are many basketfuls.""I thought I heard a rustling among the trees!"The girls rushed towards each other, clasped each other round the
waist, and for a little while stood still, scarcely drawing breath."It's nothing, I dare say; come, let's go on picking.""It was nice you came to the parsonage to-day, Eli.Haven't you
anything to tell me?"Daniel went back to the bedroom."Yes; I've been to see Godfather.""Well, you've told me that; but haven't you anything to tell me about
_him_--you know who?""Indeed, he has: father and mother pretended to know nothing of it;
but I went up-stairs and hid myself.""Yes; I believe father told him where I was; he's always so tiresome
now.""And so he came there?--Sit down, sit down; here, near me."Yes; but he didn't say much, for he was so bashful.""Tell me what he said, every word; pray, every word!"'You know what I want to say to you,' he said, sitting down
beside me on the chest.""I wished very much to get loose again; but he wouldn't let me.'Dear
Eli,' he said----" She laughed, and the other one laughed, too.And then both laughed together, "Ha, ha, ha, ha!"At last the laughing came to an end, and they were both quiet for a
while.Then the one who had first spoken asked in a low voice,
"Wasn't it strange he took you round your waist?"Either the other girl did not answer that question, or she answered
in so low a voice that it could not be heard; perhaps she only
answered by a smile."Didn't your father or your mother say anything afterwards?"asked
the first girl, after a pause."Father came up and looked at me; but I turned away from him because
he laughed at me.""No, she didn't say anything; but she wasn't so strict as usual.""Well, you've done with him, I think?""Was it thus he took you round your waist?""Well, then;--it was thus...."

"Eli?""Do you think there will ever be anybody come in that way to me?"Then they laughed again; and there was much whispering and tittering.Soon the girls went away; they had not seen either Arne or the axe
and jacket, and he was glad of it.A few days after, he gave Opplands-Knut a little farm on Kampen."You shall not be lonely any longer," Arne said.That winter Arne went to the parsonage for some time to do carpentry;
and both the girls were often there together.When Arne saw them, he
often wondered who it might be that now came to woo Eli Boeen.One day he had to drive for the clergyman's daughter and Eli; he
could not understand a word they said, though he had very quick ears.Sometimes Mathilde spoke to him; and then Eli always laughed and hid
her face.Mathilde asked him if it was true that he could make
verses."No," he said quickly; then they both laughed; and chattered
and laughed again.He felt vexed; and afterwards when he met them
seemed not to take any notice of them.Once he was sitting in the servants' hall while a dance was going on,
and Mathilde and Eli both came to see it.They stood together in a
corner, disputing about something; Eli would not do it, but Mathilde
would, and she at last gained her point.Then they both came over to
Arne, courtesied, and asked him if he could dance.He said he could
not; and then both turned aside and ran away, laughing.In fact, they
were always laughing, Arne thought; and he became brave.But soon
after, he got the clergyman's foster-son, a boy of about twelve, to
teach him to dance, when no one was by.Eli had a little brother of the same age as the clergyman's
foster-son.These two boys were playfellows; and Arne made sledges,
snow-shoes and snares for them; and often talked to them about their
sisters, especially about Eli.Sandra went back to the office.One day Eli's brother brought Arne a
message that he ought to make his hair a little smoother."Eli did; but she told me not to say it was she."A few days after, Arne sent word that Eli ought to laugh a little
less.The boy brought back word that Arne ought by all means to laugh
a little more.Eli's brother once asked Arne to give him something that he had
written.He complied, without thinking any more about the matter.But
in a few days after, the boy, thinking to please Arne, told him that
Eli and Mathilde liked his writing very much."Where, then, have they seen any of it?""Well, it was for them, I asked for some of it the other day."Then Arne asked the boys to bring him something their sisters had
written.They did so; and he corrected the errors in the writing with
his carpenter's pencil, and asked the boys to lay it in some place
where their sisters might easily find it.Soon after, he found the
paper in his jacket pocket; and at the foot was written, "Corrected
by a conceited fellow."The next day, Arne completed his work at the parsonage, and returned
home.So gentle as he was that winter, the mother had never seen him,
since that sad time just after the father's death.He read the sermon
to her, accompanied her to church, and was in every way very kind.But she knew only too well that one great reason for his increased
kindness was, that he meant to go away when spring came.Then one day
a message came from Boeen, asking him to go there to do carpentry.Arne started, and, apparently without thinking of what he said,
replied that he would come.But no sooner had the messenger left than
the mother said, "You may well be astonished!"Well, is there anything strange in that?"Arne asked, without
looking at her."And, why not from Boeen, as well as any other place?""From Boeen and Birgit Boeen!--Baard, who made your father a <DW36>,
and all only for Birgit's sake!"exclaimed Arne; "was that Baard Boeen?"The whole of the father's
life seemed unrolled before them, and at that moment they saw the
black thread which had always run through it.Then they began talking
about those grand days of his, when old Eli Boeen had himself offered
him his daughter Birgit, and he had refused her: they passed on
through his life till the day when his spine had been broken; and
they both agreed that Baard's fault was the less.Still, it was he
who had made the father a <DW36>; he, it was."Have I not even yet done with father?"Arne thought; and determined
at the same moment that he would go to Boeen.As he went walking, with his saw on his shoulder, over the ice
towards Boeen, it seemed to him a beautiful place.The dwelling-house
always seemed as if it was fresh painted; and--perhaps because he
felt a little cold--it just then looked to him very sheltered and
comfortable.He did not, however, go straight in, but went round by
the cattle-house, where a flock of thick-haired goats stood in the
snow, gnawing the bark off some fir twigs.A shepherd's dog ran
backwards and forwards on the barn steps, barking as if the devil was
coming to the house; but when Arne went to him, he wagged his tail
and allowed himself to be patted.The kitchen door at the upper end
of the house was often opened, and Arne looked over there every time;
but he saw no one except the milkmaid, carrying some pails, or the
cook, throwing something to the goats.In the barn the threshers
were hard at work; and to the left, in front of the woodshed, a lad
stood chopping fagots, with many piles of them behind him.Arne laid away his saw and went into the kitchen: the floor was
strewed with white sand and chopped juniper leaves; copper kettles
shone on the walls; china and earthenware stood in rows upon the
shelves; and the servants were preparing the dinner."Step into the sitting-room," said one of the servants,
pointing to an inner door with a brass knob.He went in: the room was
brightly painted--the ceiling, with clusters of roses; the cupboards,
with red, and the names of the owners in black letters; the bedstead,
also with red, bordered with blue stripes.Beside the stove, a
broad-shouldered, mild-looking man, with long light hair, sat hooping
some tubs; and at the large table, a slender, tall woman, in a
close-fitting dress and linen cap, sat sorting some corn into two
heaps: no one else was in the room."Good day, and a blessing on the work," said Arne, taking off his
cap.Both looked up; and the man smiled and asked who it was."I am
he who has come to do carpentry."The man smiled still more, and said, while he leaned forward again to
his work, "Oh, all right, Arne Kampen."exclaimed the wife, staring down at the floor.The man
looked up quickly, and said, smiling once more, "A son of Nils, the
tailor;" and then he began working again.Soon the wife rose, went to the shelf, turned from it to the
cupboard, once more turned away, and, while rummaging for something
in the table drawer, she asked, without looking up, "Is _he_ going to
work _here_?""Yes, that he is," the husband answered, also without looking up."Nobody has asked you to sit down, it seems," he added, turning to
Arne, who then took a seat.The wife went out, and the husband
continued working: and so Arne asked whether he, too, might begin.The wife did not return; but next time the door opened, it was Eli
who entered.At first, she appeared not to see Arne, but when he
rose to meet her she turned half round and gave him her hand; yet
she did not look at him.They exchanged a few words, while the
father worked on.Eli was slender and upright, her hands were small,
with round wrists, her hair was braided, and she wore a dress with a
close-fitting bodice.She laid the table for dinner: the laborers
dined in the next room; but Arne, with the family."No; she's up-stairs, weighing wool.""Yes; but she says she won't have anything.""She wouldn't let me make a fire."After dinner, Arne began to work; and in the evening he again sat
with the family.The wife and Eli sewed, while the husband employed
himself in some trifling work, and Arne helped him.They worked on in
silence above an hour; for Eli, who seemed to be the one who usually
did the talking, now said nothing.Arne thought with dismay how often
it was just so in his own home; and yet he had never felt it till
now.At last, Eli seemed to think she had been silent quite long
enough, and, after drawing a deep breath, she burst out laughing.Then the father laughed; and Arne felt it was ridiculous and began,
too.Afterwards they talked about several things, soon the
conversation was principally between Arne and Eli, the father now and
then putting in a word edgewise.But once after Arne had been
speaking at some length, he looked up, and his eyes met those of the
mother, Birgit, who had laid down her work, and sat gazing at him.Then she went on with her work again; but the next word he spoke made
her look up once more.Bedtime drew near, and they all went to their own rooms.Arne thought
he would take notice of the dream he had the first night in a fresh
place; but he could see no meaning in it.During the whole day he had
talked very little with the husband; yet now in the night he dreamed
of no one in the house but him.The last thing was, that Baard was
sitting playing at cards with Nils, the tailor.The latter looked
very pale and angry; but Baard was smiling, and he took all the
tricks.Arne stayed at Boeen several days; and a great deal was done, but very
little said.Not only the people in the parlor, but also the
servants, the housemen, everybody about the place, even the women,
were silent.In the yard was an old dog which barked whenever a
stranger came near; but if any of the people belonging to the place
heard him, they always said "Hush!"and then he went away, growling,
and lay down.At Arne's own home was a large weather-vane, and here
was one still larger which he particularly noticed because it did not
turn.It shook whenever the wind was high, as though it wished to
turn; and Arne stood looking at it so long that he felt at last he
must climb up to unloose it.It was not frozen fast, as he thought:
but a stick was fixed against it to prevent it from turning.He took
the stick out and threw it down; Baard was just passing below, and it
struck him."Leave it alone; it makes a wailing noise when it turns.""Well, I think even that's better than silence," said Arne, seating
himself astride on the ridge of the roof.Baard looked up at Arne,
and Arne down at Baard.Then Baard smiled and said, "He who must wail
when he speaks had better he silent."Words sometimes haunt us long after they were uttered, especially
when they were last words.So Baard's words followed Arne as he came
down from the roof in the cold, and they were still with him when he
went into the sitting-room in the evening.It was twilight; and Eli
stood at the window, looking away over the ice which lay bright in
the moonlight.Arne went to the other window, and looked out also.Indoors it was warm and quiet; outdoors it was cold, and a sharp wind
swept through the vale, bending the branches of the trees, and making
their shadows creep trembling on the snow.A light shone over from
the parsonage, then vanished, then appeared again, taking various
shapes and colors, as a distant light always seems to do when one
looks at it long and intently.Opposite, the mountain stood dark,
with deep shadow at its foot, where a thousand fairy tales hovered;
but with its snowy upper plains bright in the moonlight.The stars
were shining, and northern lights were flickering in one quarter of
the sky, but they did not spread.A little way from the window, down
towards the water, stood some trees, whose shadows kept stealing over
to each other; but the tall ash stood alone, writing on the snow.All was silent, save now and then, when a long wailing sound was
heard."It's the weather-vane," said Eli; and after a little while she added
in a lower tone, as if to herself, "it must have come unfastened."But Arne had been like one who wished to speak and could not.Now he
said, "Do you remember that tale about the thrushes?""It was you who told it, indeed."I often think there's something that sings when all is still," she
said, in a voice so soft and low that he felt as if he heard it now
for the first time."It is the good within our own souls," he said.She looked at him as if she thought that answer meant too much; and
they both stood silent a few moments.Then she asked, while she wrote
with her finger on the window-pane, "Have you made any songs lately?"He blushed; but she did not see it, and so she asked once more, "How
do you manage to make songs?""I store up the thoughts that other people let slip."She was silent for a long while; perhaps thinking she might have had
some thoughts fit for songs, but had let them slip."How strange it is," she said, at last, as though to herself, and
beginning to write again on the window-pane."I made a song the first time I had seen you.""Behind the parsonage, that evening you went away from there;--I saw
you in the water."She laughed, and was quiet for a while.Daniel travelled to the hallway.Arne had never done such a thing before, but he repeated the song
now:

   "Fair Venevill bounded on lithesome feet
        Her lover to meet," &c.[4]

 [4] As on page 68.Eli listened attentively, and stood silent long after he had
finished.At last she exclaimed, "Ah, what a pity for her!""I feel as if I had not made that song myself," he said; and then
stood like her, thinking over it."But that won't be my fate, I hope," she said, after a pause."No; I was thinking rather of myself.""I don't know; I felt so then."The next day, when Arne came into the room to dinner, he went over to
the window.Outdoors it was dull and foggy, but indoors, warm and
comfortable; and on the window-pane was written with a finger, "Arne,
Arne, Arne," and nothing but "Arne," over and over again: it was at
that window, Eli stood the evening before.Next day, Arne came into the room and said he had heard in the yard
that the clergyman's daughter, Mathilde, had just gone to the town;
as she thought, for a few days, but as her parents intended, for a
year or two.Eli had heard nothing of this before, and now she fell
down fainting.Arne had never seen any one faint, and he was much
frightened.He ran for the maids; they ran for the parents, who came
hurrying in; and there was a disturbance all over the house, and the
dog barked on the barn steps.Soon after, when Arne came in again,
the mother was kneeling at the bedside, while the father supported
Eli's drooping head.The maids were running about--one for water,
another for hartshorn which was in the cupboard, while a third
unfastened her jacket.the mother said; "I see it was wrong in us not to
tell her; it was you, Baard, who would have it so; God help you!""I wished to tell her, indeed; but nothing's to
be as I wish; God help you!You're always so harsh with her, Baard;
you don't understand her; you don't know what it is to love anybody,
you don't.""She isn't like some others who can
bear sorrow; it quite puts her down, poor slight thing, as she is.Wake up, my child, and we'll be kind to you!wake up, Eli, my own
darling, and don't grieve us so.""You always either talk too much or too little," Baard said, at last,
looking over to Arne, as though he did not wish him to hear such
things, but to leave the room.As, however, the maid-servants stayed,
Arne thought he, too, might stay; but he went over to the window.Soon the sick girl revived so far as to be able to look round and
recognize those about her; but then also memory returned, and she
called wildly for Mathilde, went into hysterics, and sobbed till it
was painful to be in the room.The mother tried to soothe her, and
the father sat down where she could see him; but she pushed them both
from her.she cried; "I don't like you; go away!""Oh, Eli, how can you say you don't like your own parents?"you're unkind to me, and you take away every pleasure from me!"don't say such hard things," said the mother, imploringly."Yes, mother," she exclaimed; "now I _must_ say it!Yes, mother; you
wish to marry me to that bad man; and I won't have him!You shut me
up here, where I'm never happy save when I'm going out!And you take
away Mathilde from me; the only one in the world I love and long for!Oh, God, what will become of me, now Mathilde is gone!""But you haven't been much with her lately," Baard said."What did that matter, so long as I could look over to her from that
window," the poor girl answered, weeping in a childlike way that Arne
had never before seen in any one."Why, you couldn't see her there," said Baard."Still, I saw the house," she answered; and the mother added
passionately, "You don't understand such things, you don't.""Now, I can never again go to the window," said Eli."When I rose in
the morning, I went there; in the evening I sat there in the
moonlight: I went there when I could go to no one else.She writhed in the bed, and went again into hysterics.Baard sat down on a stool a little way from the bed, and continued
looking at her.But Eli did not recover so soon as they expected.Towards evening
they saw she would have a serious illness, which had probably been
coming upon her for some time; and Arne was called to assist in
carrying her up-stairs to her room.She lay quiet and unconscious,
looking very pale.The mother sat by the side of her bed, the father
stood at the foot, looking at her: afterwards he went to his work.So
did Arne; but that night before he went to sleep, he prayed for her;
prayed that she who was so young and fair might be happy in this
world, and that no one might bar away joy from her.The next day when Arne came in, he found the father and mother
sitting talking together: the mother had been weeping.Arne asked how
Eli was; both expected the other to give an answer, and so for some
time none was given, but at last the father said, "Well, she's very
bad to-day."Afterwards Arne heard that she had been raving all night, or, as the
father said, "talking foolery."She had a violent fever, knew no one,
and would not eat, and the parents were deliberating whether they
should send for a doctor.When afterwards they both went to the
sick-room, leaving Arne behind, he felt as if life and death were
struggling together up there, but he was kept outside.In a few days, however, Eli became a little better.But once when the
father was tending her, she took it into her head to have Narrifas,
the bird which Mathilde had given her, set beside the bed.Then Baard
told her that--as was really the case--in the confusion the bird had
been forgotten, and was starved.The mother was just coming in as
Baard was saying this, and while yet standing in the doorway, she
cried out, "Oh, dear me, what a monster you are, Baard, to tell it to
that poor little thing!See, she's fainting again; God forgive you!"When Eli revived she again asked for the bird; said its death was a
bad omen for Mathilde; and wished to go to her: then she fainted
again.Baard stood looking on till she grew so much worse that he
wanted to help, too, in tending her; but the mother pushed him away,
and said she would do all herself.Then Baard gave a long sad look at
both of them, put his cap straight with both hands, turned aside and
went out.Soon after, the Clergyman and his wife came; for the fever
heightened, and grew so violent that they did not know whether it
would turn to life or death.The Clergyman as well as his wife spoke
to Baard about Eli, and hinted that he was too harsh with her; but
when they heard what he had told her about the bird, the Clergyman
plainly told him it was very rough, and said he would have her taken
to his own house as soon as she was well enough to be moved.The
Clergyman's wife would scarcely look at Baard; she wept, and went to
sit with the sick one; then sent for the doctor, and came several
times a day to carry out his directions.Baard went wandering
restlessly about from one place to another in the yard, going
oftenest to those places where he could be alone.There he would
stand still by the hour together; then, put his cap straight and work
again a little.The mother did not speak to him, and they scarcely looked at each
other.He used to go and see Eli several times in the day; he took
off his shoes before he went up-stairs, left his cap outside, and
opened the door cautiously.When he came in, Birgit would turn her
head, but take no notice of him, and then sit just as before,
stooping forwards, with her head on her hands, looking at Eli, who
lay still and pale, unconscious of all that was passing around her.Baard would stand awhile at the foot of the bed and look at them
both, but say nothing: once when Eli moved as though she were waking,
he stole away directly as quietly as he had come.Arne often thought words had been exchanged between man and wife and
parents and child which had been long gathering, and would be long
remembered.He longed to go away, though he wished to know before he
went what would be the end of Eli's illness; but then he thought he
might always hear about her even after he had left; and so he went to
Baard telling him he wished to go home: the work which he came to do
was completed.Baard was sitting outdoors on a chopping-block,
scratching in the snow with a stick: Arne recognized the stick: it
was the one which had fastened the weather-vane."Well, perhaps it isn't worth your while to stay here now; yet I feel
as if I don't like you to go away, either," said Baard, without
looking up.He said no more; neither did Arne; but after a while he
walked away to do some work, taking for granted that he was to remain
at Boeen.Some time after, when he was called to dinner, he saw Baard still
sitting on the block.He went over to him, and asked how Eli was."I think she's very bad to-day," Baard said.Arne felt as if somebody asked him to sit down, and he seated himself
opposite Baard on the end of a felled tree."I've often thought of your father lately," Baard said so
unexpectedly that Arne did not know how to answer."You know, I suppose, what was between us?""Well, you know, as may be expected, only one half of the story, and
think I'm greatly to blame.""You have, I dare say, settled that affair with your God, as surely
as my father has done so," Arne said, after a pause."Well, some people might think so," Baard answered."When I found
this stick, I felt it was so strange that you should come here and
unloose the weather-vane.He had
taken off his cap, and sat silently looking at it."I was about fourteen years old when I became acquainted with your
father, and he was of the same age.He was very wild, and he couldn't
bear any one to be above him in anything.So he always had a grudge
against me because I stood first, and he, second, when we were
confirmed.He often offered to fight me, but we never came to it;
most likely because neither of us felt sure who would beat.And a
strange thing it is, that although he fought every day, no accident
came from it; while the first time I did, it turned out as badly as
could be; but, it's true, I had been wanting to fight long enough."Nils fluttered about all the girls, and they, about him.There was
only one I would have, and her he took away from me at every dance,
at every wedding, and at every party; it was she who is now my
wife.... Often, as I sat there, I felt a great mind to try my
strength upon him for this thing; but I was afraid I should lose, and
I knew if I did, I should lose her, too.Then, when everybody had
gone, I would lift the weights he had lifted, and kick the beam he
had kicked; but the next time he took the girl from me, I was afraid
to meddle with him, although once, when he was flirting with her just
in my face, I went up to a tall fellow who stood by and threw him
against the beam, as if in fun.And Nils grew pale, too, when he saw
it."Even if he had been kind to her; but he was false to her again and
again.I almost believe, too, she loved him all the more every time.I thought now it must either break or
bear.The Lord, too, would not have him going about any longer; and
so he fell a little more heavily than I meant him to do.They sat silent for a while; then Baard went on:

"I once more made my offer.She said neither yes nor no; but I
thought she would like me better afterwards.The
wedding was kept down in the valley, at the house of one of her
aunts, whose property she inherited.We had plenty when we started,
and it has now increased.Our estates lay side by side, and when we
married they were thrown into one, as I always, from a boy, thought
they might be.But many other things didn't turn out as I expected."He was silent for several minutes; and Arne thought he wept; but he
did not."In the beginning of our married life, she was quiet and very sad.I
had nothing to say to comfort her, and so I was silent.Afterwards,
she began sometimes to take to these fidgeting ways which you have, I
dare say, noticed in her; yet it was a change, and so I said nothing
then, either.But one really happy day, I haven't known ever since I
was married, and that's now twenty years...."

He broke the stick in two pieces; and then sat for a while looking at
them."When Eli grew bigger, I thought she would be happier among strangers
than at home.It was seldom I wished to carry out my own will in
anything, and whenever I did, it generally turned out badly; so it
was in this case.The mother longed after her child, though only the
lake lay between them; and afterwards I saw, too, that Eli's training
at the parsonage was in some ways not the right thing for her; but
then it was too late: now I think she likes neither father nor
mother."He had taken off his cap again; and now his long hair hung down over
his eyes; he stroked it back with both hands, and put on his cap as
if he were going away; but when, as he was about to rise, he turned
towards the house, he checked himself and added, while looking up at
the bed-room window."I thought it better that she and Mathilde shouldn't see each other
to say good-bye: that, too, was wrong.I told her the wee bird was
dead; for it was my fault, and so I thought it better to confess; but
that again was wrong.And so it is with everything: I've always meant
to do for the best, but it has always turned out for the worst; and
now things have come to such a pass that both wife and daughter speak
ill of me, and I'm going here lonely."A servant-girl called out to them that the dinner was becoming cold."I hear the horses neighing; I think somebody has
forgotten them," he said, and went away to the stable to give them
some hay.Arne rose, too; he felt as if he hardly knew whether Baard had been
speaking or not.The mother watched by her night
and day, and never came down-stairs; the father came up as usual,
with his boots off, and leaving his cap outside the door.Arne still
remained at the house.He and the father used to sit together in
the evening; and Arne began to like him much, for Baard was a
well-informed, deep-thinking man, though he seemed afraid of saying
what he knew.In his own way, he, too, enjoyed Arne's company, for
Arne helped his thoughts and told him of things which were new to
him.Eli soon began to sit up part of the day, and as she recovered, she
often took little fancies into her head.Thus, one evening when Arne
was sitting in the room below, singing songs in a clear, loud voice,
the mother came down with a message from Eli, asking him if he would
go up-stairs and sing to her, that she might also hear the words.It
seemed as if he had been singing to Eli all the time, for when the
mother spoke he turned red, and rose as if he would deny having done
so, though no one charged him with it.He soon collected himself,
however, and replied evasively, that he could sing so very little.The mother said it did not seem so when he was alone.He had not seen Eli since the day he helped to
carry her up-stairs; he thought she must be much altered, and he
felt half afraid to see her.But when he gently opened the door and
went in, he found the room quite dark, and he could see no one.He
stopped at the door-way.Eli asked in a clear, low voice."It's Arne Kampen," he said in a gentle, guarded tone, so that his
words might fall softly."It was very kind of you to come.""Won't you sit down, Arne?"she added after a while, and Arne felt
his way to a chair at the foot of the bed."It did me good to hear
you singing; won't you sing a little to me up here?""If I only knew anything you would like."She was silent a while: then she said, "Sing a hymn."And he sang
one: it was the confirmation hymn.When he had finished he heard her
weeping, and so he was afraid to sing again; but in a little while
she said, "Sing one more."And he sang another: it was the one which
is generally sung while the catechumens are standing in the aisle."How many things I've thought over while I've been lying here," Eli
said.He did not know what to answer; and he heard her weeping again
in the dark.A clock that was ticking on the wall warned for
striking, and then struck.Eli breathed deeply several times, as if
she would lighten her breast, and then she said, "One knows so
little; I knew neither father nor mother.I haven't been kind to
them; and now it seems so sad to hear that hymn."When we talk in the darkness, we speak more faithfully than when we
see each other's face; and we also say more."It does one good to hear you talk so," Arne replied, just
remembering what she had said when she was taken ill."If now this had not happened to me,"
she went on, "God only knows how long I might have gone before I
found mother.""She has talked matters over with you lately, then?""Yes, every day; she has done hardly anything else.""Then, I'm sure you've heard many things."They were silent; and Arne had thoughts which he could not utter.Eli
was the first to link their words again."You are said to be like your father.""People say so," he replied evasively.She did not notice the tone of his voice, and so, after a while she
returned to the subject."Sing a song to me... one that you've made yourself.""I have none," he said; for it was not his custom to confess he had
himself composed the songs he sang."I'm sure you have; and I'm sure, too, you'll sing one of them when I
ask you."What he had never done for any one else, he now did for her, as he
sang the following song,--

   "The Tree's early leaf-buds were bursting their brown:
    'Shall I take them away?''No; leave them alone
            Till the blossoms have grown,'
    Prayed the tree, while he trembled from rootlet to crown."The Tree bore his blossoms, and all the birds sung:
    'Shall I take them away?''No; leave them alone
            Till the berries have grown,'
    Said the Tree, while his leaflets quivering hung."The Tree bore his fruit in the Midsummer glow:
    Said the girl, 'May I gather thy berries or no?''Yes; all thou canst see;
            Take them; all are for thee,'
    Said the Tree, while he bent down his laden boughs low."He, too, remained silent after
it, as though he had sung more than he could say.Darkness has a strong influence over those who are sitting in it and
dare not speak: they are never so near each other as then.If she
only turned on the pillow, or moved her hand on the blanket, or
breathed a little more heavily, he heard it."Arne, couldn't you teach me to make songs?""Yes, I have, these last few days; but I can't manage it.""What, then, did you wish to have in them?""Something about my mother, who loved your father so dearly.""Yes, indeed it is; and I have wept over it.""You shouldn't search for subjects; they come of themselves.""Just as other dear things come--unexpectedly.""I wonder, Arne, you're longing to go away;
you who have such a world of beauty within yourself.""Do _you_ know I am longing?"She did not answer, but lay still a few moments as if in thought."Arne, you mustn't go away," she said; and the words came warm to his
heart."Well, sometimes I have less mind to go.""Your mother must love you much, I'm sure."Go over to Kampen, when you're well again."And all at once, he fancied her sitting in the bright room at Kampen,
looking out on the mountains; his chest began to heave, and the blood
rushed to his face."It's warm in here," he said, rising."You must come over to see us oftener; mother's so fond of you.""I should like to come myself, too;... but still I must have some
errand."Eli lay silent for a while, as if she was turning over something in
her mind."I believe," she said, "mother has something to ask you
about."...

They both felt the room was becoming very hot; he wiped his brow, and
he heard her rise in the bed.No sound could be heard either in the
room or down-stairs, save the ticking of the clock on the wall.There
was no moon, and the darkness was deep; when he looked through the
green window, it seemed to him as if he was looking into a wood; when
he looked towards Eli he could see nothing, but his thoughts went
over to her, and then his heart throbbed till he could himself hear
its beating.Before his eyes flickered bright sparks; in his ears
came a rushing sound; still faster throbbed his heart: he felt he
must rise or say something.But then she exclaimed,

"How I wish it were summer!"And he heard again the sound of the
cattle-bells, the horn from the mountains, and the singing from the
valleys; and saw the fresh green foliage, the Swart-water glittering
in the sunbeams, the houses rocking in it, and Eli coming out and
sitting on the shore, just as she did that evening."If it were
summer," she said, "and I were sitting on the hill, I think I could
sing a song."He smiled gladly, and asked, "What would it be about?""About something bright; about--well, I hardly know what myself."He rose in glad excitement; but, on second thoughts,
sat down again."I sang to you when you asked me.""Yes, I know you did; but I can't tell you this; no!"Eli, do you think I would laugh at the little verse you have made?""No, I don't think you would, Arne; but it isn't anything I've made
myself.""Oh, it's by somebody else then?""Then, you can surely say it to me.""No, no, I can't; don't ask me again, Arne!"The last words were almost inaudible; it seemed as if she had hidden
her head under the bedclothes."Eli, now you're not kind to me as I was to you," he said, rising."But, Arne, there's a difference... you don't understand me... but
it was... I don't know... another time... don't be offended with
me, Arne!Though he asked, he did not believe she was.She still wept; he
felt he must draw nearer or go quite away.But he did not know what to say more, and
was silent."It's something--"

His voice trembled, and he stopped."You mustn't refuse... I would ask you...."

"Is it the song?""No... Eli, I wish so much...." He heard her breathing fast and
deeply... "I wish so much... to hold one of your hands."She did not answer; he listened intently--drew nearer, and clasped a
warm little hand which lay on the coverlet.Then steps were heard coming up-stairs; they came nearer and nearer;
the door was opened; and Arne unclasped his hand.It was the mother,
who came in with a light."I think you're sitting too long in the
dark," she said, putting the candlestick on the table.But neither
Eli nor Arne could bear the light; she turned her face to the pillow,
and he shaded his eyes with his hand."Well, it pains a little at
first, but it soon passes off," said the mother.Arne looked on the floor for something which he had not dropped, and
then went down-stairs.The next day, he heard that Eli intended to come down in the
afternoon.He put his tools together, and said good-bye.When she
came down he had gone.MARGIT CONSULTS THE CLERGYMAN.Up between the mountains, the spring comes late.The post, who in
winter passes along the high-road thrice a week, in April passes only
once; and the highlanders know then that outside, the snow is
shovelled away, the ice broken, the steamers are running, and the
plough is struck into the earth.Here, the snow still lies six feet
deep; the cattle low in their stalls; the birds arrive, but feel cold
and hide themselves.Occasionally some traveller arrives, saying he
has left his carriage down in the valley; he brings flowers, which he
examines; he picked them by the wayside.The people watch the advance
of the season, talk over their matters, and look up at the sun and
round about, to see how much he is able to do each day.They scatter
ashes on the snow, and think of those who are now picking flowers.It was at this time of year, old Margit Kampen went one day to the
parsonage, and asked whether she might speak to "father."Sandra travelled to the bathroom.She was
invited into the study, where the clergyman,--a slender, fair-haired,
gentle-looking man, with large eyes and spectacles,--received her
kindly, recognized her, and asked her to sit down."Is there something the matter with Arne again?"he inquired, as if
Arne had often been a subject of conversation between them.I haven't anything wrong to say about him; but yet
it's so sad," said Margit, looking deeply grieved.I can hardly think he'll even stay with me till
spring comes up here.""But he has promised never to go away from you.""That's true; but, dear me!he must now be his own master; and if his
mind's set upon going away, go, he must."Well, after all, I don't think he will leave you.""Well, perhaps not; but still, if he isn't happy at home?am I then
to have it upon my conscience that I stand in his way?Sometimes I
feel as if I ought even to ask him to leave.""How do you know he is longing now, more than ever?"Since the middle of the winter, he hasn't
worked out in the parish a single day; but he has been to the town
three times, and has stayed a long while each time.He scarcely ever
talks now while he is at work, but he often used to do.He'll sit for
hours alone at the little up-stairs window, looking towards the
ravine, and away over the mountains; he'll sit there all Sunday
afternoon, and often when it's moonlight he sits there till late in
the night.""Yes, of course, he reads and sings to me every Sunday; but he seems
rather in a hurry, save now and then when he gives almost too much of
the thing.""Does he never talk over matters with you then?""Well, yes; but it's so seldom that I sit and weep alone between
whiles.Then I dare say he notices it, for he begins talking, but
it's only about trifles; never about anything serious."The Clergyman walked up and down the room; then he stopped and asked,
"But why, then, don't you talk to him about his matters?"For a long while she gave no answer; she sighed several times, looked
downwards and sideways, doubled up her handkerchief, and at last
said, "I've come here to speak to you, father, about something that's
a great burden on my mind.""Speak freely; it will relieve you.""Yes, I know it will; for I've borne it alone now these many years,
and it grows heavier each year.""Well, what is it, my good Margit?"There was a pause, and then she said, "I've greatly sinned against my
son."The Clergyman came close to her; "Confess it," he
said; "and we will pray together that it may be forgiven."Margit sobbed and wiped her eyes, but began weeping again when she
tried to speak.The Clergyman tried to comfort her, saying she could
not have done anything very sinful, she doubtless was too hard upon
herself, and so on.But Margit continued weeping, and could not begin
her confession till the Clergyman seated himself by her side, and
spoke still more encouragingly to her.Then after a while she began,
"The boy was ill-used when a child; and so he got this mind for
travelling.Then he met with Christian--he who has grown so rich over
there where they dig gold.Christian gave him so many books that he
got quite a scholar; they used to sit together in the long evenings;
and when Christian went away Arne wanted to go after him.But just at
that time, the father died, and the lad promised never to leave me.But I was like a hen that's got a duck's egg to brood; when my
duckling had burst his shell, he would go out on the wide water, and
I was left on the bank, calling after him.If he didn't go away
himself, yet his heart went away in his songs, and every morning I
expected to find his bed empty."Then a letter from foreign parts came for him, and I felt sure it
must be from Christian.God forgive me, but I kept it back!I thought
there would be no more, but another came; and, as I had kept the
first, I thought I must keep the second, too.it seemed
as if they would burn a hole through the box where I had put them;
and my thoughts were there from as soon as I opened my eyes in the
morning till late at night when I shut them.And then,--did you ever
hear of anything worse!--a third letter came.I held it in my hand a
quarter of an hour; I kept it in my bosom three days, weighing in my
mind whether I should give it to him or put it with the others; but
then I thought perhaps it would lure him away from me, and so I
couldn't help putting it with the others.But now I felt miserable
every day, not only about the letters in the box, but also for fear
another might come.I was afraid of everybody who came to the house;
when we were sitting together inside, I trembled whenever I heard the
door go, for fear it might be somebody with a letter, and then he
might get it.When he was away in the parish, I went about at home
thinking he might perhaps get a letter while there, and then it would
tell him about those that had already come.When I saw him coming
home, I used to look at his face while he was yet a long way off,
and, oh, dear!how happy I felt when he smiled; for then I knew he
had got no letter.He had grown so handsome; like his father, only
fairer, and more gentle-looking.And, then, he had such a voice; when
he sat at the door in the evening-sun, singing towards the mountain
ridge, and listening to the echo, I felt that live without him.If I only saw him, or knew he was somewhere near, and he
seemed pretty happy, and would only give me a word now and then, I
wanted nothing more on earth, and I wouldn't have shed one tear
less."But just when he seemed to be getting on better with people, and
felt happier among them, there came a message from the post-office
that a fourth letter had come; and in it were two hundred dollars!I
thought I should have fell flat down where I stood: what could I do?The letter, I might get rid of, 'twas true; but the money?For two or
three nights I couldn't sleep for it; a little while I left it
up-stairs, then, in the cellar behind a barrel, and once I was so
overdone that I laid it in the window so that he might find it.But
when I heard him coming, I took it back again.At last, however, I
found a way: I gave him the money and told him it had been put out at
interest in my mother's lifetime.He laid it out upon the land, just
as I thought he would; and so it wasn't wasted.But that same
harvest-time, when he was sitting at home one evening, he began
talking about Christian, and wondering why he had so clean forgotten
him."Now again the wound opened, and the money burned me so that I was
obliged to go out of the room.I had sinned, and yet my sin had
answered no end.Since then, I have hardly dared to look into his
eyes, blessed as they are."The mother who has sinned against her own child is the most
miserable of all mothers;... and yet I did it only out of love....
And so, I dare say, I shall be punished accordingly by the loss of
what I love most.For since the middle of the winter, he has again
taken to singing the tune that he used to sing when he was longing to
go away; he has sung it ever since he was a lad, and whenever I hear
it I grow pale.Then I feel I could give up all for him; and only see
this."She took from her bosom a piece of paper, unfolded it and gave
it to the Clergyman."He now and then writes something here; I think
it's some words to that tune.... I brought it with me; for I can't
myself read such small writing... will you look and see if there
isn't something written about his going away...."

There was only one whole verse on the paper.For the second verse,
there were only a few half-finished lines, as if the song was one he
had forgotten, and was now coming into his memory again, line by
line.The first verse ran thus,--

   "What shall I see if I ever go
        Over the mountains high?Now I can see but the peaks of snow,
    Crowning the cliffs where the pine trees grow,
        Waiting and longing to rise
        Nearer the beckoning skies.""Yes, it is about that," replied the Clergyman, putting the paper
down.She sat with folded
hands, looking intently and anxiously into the Clergyman's face,
while tear after tear fell down her cheeks.The Clergyman knew no more what to do in the matter than she did."Well, I think the lad must be left alone in this case," he said."Life can't be made different for his sake; but what he will find in
it must depend upon himself; now, it seems, he wishes to go away in
search of life's good.""But isn't that just what the old crone did?""Yes; she who went away to fetch the sunshine, instead of making
windows in the wall to let it in."The Clergyman was much astonished at Margit's words, and so he had
been before, when she came speak to him on this subject; but,
indeed, she had thought of hardly anything else for eight years."Well, as to the letters, that wasn't quite right.Keeping back what
belonged to your son, can't be justified.But it was still worse to
make a fellow Christian appear in a bad light when he didn't deserve
it; and especially as he was one whom Arne was so fond of, and who
loved him so dearly in return.But we will pray God to forgive you;
we will both pray."Margit still sat with her hands folded, and her head bent down."How I should pray him to forgive me, if I only knew he would stay!"she said: surely, she was confounding our Lord with Arne.The
Clergyman, however, appeared as if he did not notice it."Do you intend to confess it to him directly?"She looked down, and said in a low voice, "I should much like to wait
a little if I dared."The Clergyman turned aside with a smile, and asked, "Don't you
believe your sin becomes greater, the longer you delay confessing
it?"She pulled her handkerchief about with both hands, folded it into a
very small square, and tried to fold it into a still smaller one, but
could not."If I confess about the letters, I'm afraid he'll go away.""Then, you dare not rely upon our Lord?""Oh, yes, I do, indeed," she said hurriedly; and then she added in a
low voice, "but still, if he were to go away from me?""Then, I see you are more afraid of his going away than of continuing
to sin?"Margit had unfolded her handkerchief again; and now she put it to her
eyes, for she began weeping.The Clergyman remained for a while
looking at her silently; then he went on, "Why, then, did you tell me
all this, if it was not to lead to anything?"He waited long, but she
did not answer."Perhaps you thought your sin would become less when
you had confessed it?""Yes, I did," she said, almost in a whisper, while her head bent
still lower upon her breast."Well, well, my good Margit, take
courage; I hope all will yet turn out for the best."she asked, looking up; and a sad smile passed over
her tear-marked face."Yes, I do; I believe God will no longer try you.You will have joy
in your old age, I am sure.""If I might only keep the joy I have!"she said; and the Clergyman
thought she seemed unable to fancy any greater happiness than living
in that constant anxiety."If we had but a little girl, now, who could take hold on him, then
I'm sure he would stay.""You may be sure I've thought of that," she said, shaking her head."Well, there's Eli Boeen; she might be one who would please him.""You may be sure I've thought of that."She rocked the upper part of
her body backwards and forwards."If we could contrive that they might oftener see each other here at
the parsonage?""You may be sure I've thought of that!"She clapped her hands and
looked at the Clergyman with a smile all over her face.He stopped
while he was lighting his pipe."Perhaps this, after all, was what brought you here to-day?"She looked down, put two fingers into the folded handkerchief, and
pulled out one corner of it."Ah, well, God help me, perhaps it was this I wanted."The Clergyman walked up and down, and smiled."Perhaps, too, you came
for the same thing the last time you were here?"She pulled out the corner of the handkerchief still farther, and
hesitated awhile."Well, as you ask me, perhaps I did--yes.""Then, too, it was to carry this point
that you confessed at last the thing you had on your conscience."She spread out the handkerchief to fold it up smoothly again."No;
ah, no; that weighed so heavily upon me, I felt I must tell it to
you, father.""Well, well, my dear Margit, we will talk no more about it."Then, while he was walking up and down, he suddenly added, "Do you
think you would of yourself have come out to me with this wish of
yours?""Well,--I had already come out with so much, that I dare say this,
too, would have come out at last."The Clergyman laughed, but he did not tell her what he thought."Well, we will manage this matter for you,
Margit," he said.She rose to go, for she understood he had now
said all he wished to say."And we will look after them a little.""I don't know how to thank you enough," she said, taking his hand and
courtesying.She wiped her eyes with the handkerchief, went towards the door,
courtesied again, and said, "Good bye," while she slowly opened and
shut it.But so lightly as she went towards Kampen that day, she had
not gone for many, many years.When she had come far enough to see
the thick smoke curling up cheerfully from the chimney, she blessed
the house, the whole place, the Clergyman and Arne,--and remembered
they were going to have her favorite dish, smoked ham, for dinner.It was situated in the middle of a
plain, bordered on the one side by a ravine, and on the other, by the
high-road; just beyond the road was a thick wood, with a mountain
ridge rising behind it, while high above all stood blue mountains
crowned with snow.On the other side of the ravine also was a wide
range of mountains, running round the Swart-water on the side where
Boeen was situated: it grew higher as it ran towards Kampen, but then
turned suddenly sidewards, forming the broad valley called the
Lower-tract, which began here, for Kampen was the last place in the
Upper-tract.The front door of the dwelling-house opened towards the road, which
was about two thousand paces off, and a path with leafy birch-trees
on both sides led thither.In front of the house was a little garden,
which Arne managed according to the rules given in his books.The
cattle-houses and barns were nearly all new-built, and stood to the
left hand, forming a square.The house was two stories high, and was
painted red, with white window-frames and doors; the roof was of turf
with many small plants growing upon it, and on the ridge was a
vane-spindle, where turned an iron cock with a high raised tail.Spring had come to the mountain-tracts.It was Sunday morning; the
weather was mild and calm, but the air was somewhat heavy, and the
mist lay low on the forest, though Margit said it would rise later in
the day.Arne had read the sermon, and sung the hymns to his mother,
and he felt better for them himself.Now he stood ready dressed to go
to the parsonage.When he opened the door the fresh smell of the
leaves met him; the garden lay dewy and bright in the morning breeze,
but from the ravine sounded the roaring of the waterfall, now in
lower, then again in louder booms, till all around seemed to tremble.As he went farther from the fall, its booming
became less awful, and soon it lay over the landscape like the deep
tones of an organ.the mother said, opening the
window and looking after him till he disappeared behind the shrubs.The mist had gradually risen, the sun shone bright, the fields and
garden became full of fresh life, and the things Arne had sown and
tended grew and sent up odor and gladness to his mother."Spring is
beautiful to those who have had a long winter," she said, looking
away over the fields, as if in thought.Arne had no positive errand at the parsonage, but he thought he might
go there to ask about the newspapers which he shared with the
Clergyman.Recently he had read the names of several Norwegians who
had been successful in gold digging in America, and among them was
Christian.His relations had long since left the place, but Arne had
lately heard a rumor that they expected him to come home soon.About
this, also, Arne thought he might hear at the parsonage; and if
Christian had already returned, he would go down and see him between
spring and hay-harvest.These thoughts occupied his mind till he came
far enough to see the Swart-water and Boeen on the other side.There,
too, the mist had risen, but it lay lingering on the mountain-sides,
while their peaks rose clear above, and the sunbeams played on the
plain; on the right hand, the shadow of the wood darkened the water,
but before the houses the lake had strewed its white sand on the flat
shore.All at once, Arne fancied himself in the red-painted house
with the white doors and windows, which he had taken as a model for
his own.He did not think of those first gloomy days he had passed
there, but only of that summer they both saw--he and Eli--up beside
her sick-bed.He had not been there since; nor would he have gone for
the whole world.If his thoughts but touched on that time, he turned
crimson; yet he thought of it many times a day; and if anything could
have driven him away from the parish, it was this.He strode onwards, as if to flee from his thoughts; but the farther
he went, the nearer he came to Boeen, and the more he looked at it.The mist had disappeared, the sky shone bright between the frame of
mountains, the birds floated in the sunny air, calling to each other,
and the fields laughed with millions of flowers; here no thundering
waterfall bowed the gladness to submissive awe, but full of life it
gambolled and sang without check or pause.Arne walked till he became glowing hot; then he threw himself down on
the grass beneath the shadow of a hill and looked towards Boeen, but
he soon turned away again to avoid seeing it.Then he heard a song
above him, so wonderfully clear as he had never heard a song before.It came floating over the meadows, mingled with the chattering of the
birds, and he had scarcely recognized the tune ere he recognized the
words also: the tune was the one he loved better than any; the words
were those he had borne in his mind ever since he was a boy, and had
forgotten that same day they were brought forth.He sprang up as if
he would catch them, but then stopped and listened while verse after
verse came streaming down to him:--

   "What shall I see if I ever go
      Over the mountains high?Now, I can see but the peaks of snow,
    Crowning the cliffs where the pine-trees grow,
      Waiting and longing to rise
      Nearer the beckoning skies."Th' eagle is rising afar away,
      Over the mountains high,
    Rowing along in the radiant day
    With mighty strokes to his distant prey,
      Where he will, swooping downwards,
      Where he will, sailing onwards."Apple-tree, longest thou not to go
      Over the mountains high?Gladly thou growest in summer's glow,
    Patiently waitest through winter's snow:
      Though birds on thy branches swing,
      Thou knowest not what they sing."He who has twenty years longed to flee
      Over the mountains high--
    He who beyond them, never will see,
    Smaller, and smaller, each year must be:
      He hears what the birds, say
      While on thy boughs they play."Birds, with your chattering, why did ye come
      Over the mountains high?Beyond, in a sunnier land ye could roam,
    And nearer to heaven could build your home;
      Why have ye come to bring
      Longing, without your wing?"Shall I, then, never, never flee
      Over the mountains high?Rocky walls, will ye always be
    Prisons until ye are tombs for me?--
      Until I lie at your feet
      Wrapped in my winding-sheet?I will away, afar away,
      Over the mountains high!Here, I am sinking lower each day,
    Though my Spirit has chosen the loftiest way;
      Let her in freedom fly;
      Not, beat on the walls and die!"_Once_, I know, I shall journey far
      Over the mountains high.Lord, is thy door already ajar?--
    Dear is the home where thy saved ones are;--
      But bar it awhile from me,
      And help me to long for Thee."Arne stood listening till the sound of the last verse, the last words
died away; then he heard the birds sing and play again, but he dared
not move.Yet he must find out who had been singing, and he lifted
his foot and walked on, so carefully that he did not hear the grass
rustle.A little butterfly settled on a flower at his feet, flew up
and settled a little way before him, flew up and settled again, and
so on all over the hill.But soon he came to a thick bush and
stopped; for a bird flew out of it with a frightened "quitt, quitt!"and rushed away over the sloping hill-side.Then she who was sitting
there looked up; Arne stooped low down, his heart throbbed till he
heard its beats, he held his breath, and was afraid to stir a leaf;
for it was Eli whom he saw.After a long while he ventured to look up again; he wished to draw
nearer, but he thought the bird perhaps had its nest under the bush,
and he was afraid he might tread on it.Then he peeped between the
leaves as they blew aside and closed again.She wore a close-fitting black dress with long white sleeves,
and a straw hat like those worn by boys.In her lap a book was lying
with a heap of wild flowers upon it; her right hand was listlessly
playing with them as if she were in thought, and her left supported
her head.She was looking away towards the place where the bird had
flown, and she seemed as if she had been weeping.Anything more beautiful, Arne had never seen or dreamed of in all
his life; the sun, too, had spread its gold over her and the place;
and the song still hovered round her, so that Arne thought,
breathed--nay, even his heart beat, in time with it.It seemed so
strange that the song which bore all his longing, _he_ had forgotten,
but _she_ had found.A tawny wasp flew round her in circles many times, till at last she
saw it and frightened it away with a flower-stalk, which she put up
as often as it came before her.Then she took up the book and opened
it, but she soon closed it again, sat as before, and began to hum
another song.He could hear it was "The Tree's early leaf-buds,"
though she often made mistakes, as if she did not quite remember
either the words or the tune.The verse she knew best was the last
one, and so she often repeated it; but she sang it thus:--

   "The Tree bore his berries, so mellow and red:
    'May I gather thy berries?''Yes; all thou canst see;
        Take them; all are for thee.'Said the Tree--trala--lala, trala, lala--said."Then she suddenly sprang up, scattering all the flowers around her,
and sang till the tune trembled through the air, and might have been
heard at Boeen.Arne had thought of coming forwards when she began
singing; he was just about to do so when she jumped up; then he felt
he _must_ come, but she went away.No!--There she skipped over the hillocks singing; here her hat fell
off, there she took it up again; here she picked a flower, there she
stood deep in the highest grass.It was a long while ere he ventured to peep out
again; at first he only raised his head; he could not see her: he
rose to his knees; still he could not see