Lifestyle changes have been increasing slowly since the introduction of media.
 Media – films, television shows, magazines, and more recently, the Internet (i.e. self-written blogs and popular websites) are the main sources of lifestyle influence around the world.
 Lifestyle changes include how people eat, dress, and communicate.
 Celebrity endorsements are prevalent.
 Lifestyle trends have always been influenced by the wealthy and famous, whether they are spotted at leisure or in a paid advertisement.
 At the dawn of the media age, the newspaper, popular magazines like "Life", and TV allowed the general public glimpse lifestyles that before were only available to the imagination.
 After its creation, the Internet became arguably the most powerful medium for spotting and influencing trends, not just by celebrities but by the average person.
 The computer era has changed the way people obtain their news, perspectives and communication.
 Magazines are still popular, but advertisers now often supply a web address where consumers can visit for more information than a print ad can provide.
 The average American household has two personal computers, making the Internet easily accessible.
 The rise of user-generated content is exemplified by the fact that anyone with Internet access can create a blog or an online journal, whether personal or commercial, which might detail someone's experience in a new restaurant, a purchased item of clothing or knickknack, or a review to a film.
 With the advent of the Android phone and its relative ease of uploading photos to social media sites such as Facebook, one can get an idea of how quickly an idea, pub review, or coveted object can be shared.
 Advertisers have always been privy to the strength of word-of-mouth and have tapped into social media, including Facebook, Twitter, and Tumblr to make their wares known.
 Douglas Kellner writes, "Radio, television, film, and the other products of media culture provide materials out of which we forge our very identities; our sense of selfhood; our notion of what it means to be male or female; our sense of class, of ethnicity and race, of nationality, of sexuality; and of "us" and "them.""